Image Comics, which will celebrate 25 years as a comic book publisher next year, is giving its fans a little gift.

The February issues of The Walking Dead, Invincible and Outcast, each written by Robert Kirkman, will cost 25 cents. The stories in those issues will be a good jumping on point for readers: The Walking Dead No. 163, with art by Charlie Adlard, follows the conclusion of the Whisperer War. (Enough said, to avoid potentially spoiling future seasons of “The Walking Dead” TV series.)

Invincible No. 133, drawn by Ryan Ottley, begins “The End of All Things,” a 12-part story that will conclude the superhero series. Outcast No. 25, with art by Paul Azaceta, will introduce characters to the series about demonic possession.

The varied genres are a hallmark of today’s Image Comics, which was formed in 1992 by several popular creators working for Marvel and DC Comics. Their goal was to control their own characters — creatively and financially. The company has had its ups and downs,  but it has become a celebrated hub for creator-owned comics.

Mr. Kirkman became a partner in 2008 and noted the amount of freedom offered by the company. “If I wanted to kill Invincible, I wouldn’t have to get clearance,” he said. “At the end of the day, the decisions fall on me and my creative team.”

If you go to see “Wonder Woman,” don’t leave your sons at home. Take your daughters too, of course, as you will want them to witness the next-level girl power of the title character and the Amazons who raise her. But the point is not simply to show our children that women can be heroes. The point is to show our daughters and sons alike where true heroes get their strength.

The movie begins with an inviting origin story. Wonder Woman, whose real name is Diana, is a demigod raised by warriors on an all-female paradise island. But the story moves from the sunny beach to the Western Front of World War I, where it both darkens and reveals its heart. Wonder Woman marshals her supernatural force behind the single aim of stopping human suffering, which means ending the war.

Diana is undeniably tough, but it’s her yawning tenderness, not her mythical strength, that sets her apart from the men alongside her and the standard-issue male superhero. In a haunting scene that resonates with the news of our time, she withers when she comes upon the devastation of a gas attack.

Wonder Woman’s compassion is the fuel of her force. She’s not bowed down by anguish; she’s pulled back like a catapult.

That Wonder Woman unleashes her wrath only when she’s exposed to inhumanity raises a question that belongs at our dinner tables: What is the purpose of having power? You can’t spend time on a playground or in a classroom (or in a boardroom or a war room) without having to grapple with this one.

Making “Wonder Woman” a full-family experience can open conversations with our children about how they might use their own influence. Would our daughters and sons stand passively by if they saw someone being bullied? Or would they use their own power to stick up for those who have less of it?

Not surprisingly, the film has plenty of examples of sexism. For instance, when Diana dares to crash an all-male meeting, an appalled commander demands to know “Who is this woman?” Parents can use this to talk about gender politics unfolding in our children’s schools.

Frustratingly persistent evidence shows that males continue to dominate the airtime of coeducational classes, even in college and law school, and even when females are in the majority. To achieve equity in classroom participation, we need to continue to encourage our young women to speak up. Further, we need to remind our daughters and our sons to use their leverage as Diana would: To stand up to those who interrupt girls or prevent them from speaking, especially interrupters who are flexing their privilege.

To be clear, guys aren’t alone in riding roughshod over their peers. But the common cultural responses to female and male aggression reveal a double standard. Young women who abuse their social power are often given the hard-to-shake label of “mean girls,” while similar behavior among young men is often ignored, because “boys will be boys.”

When we stop instinctively dismissing male aggression and at the same time slow our judgmental reactions to what we view as female aggression, we can have fair conversations with our children about how power should be exercised. We can ask whether it’s O.K. for boys to tease one another, or for a child to watch a boy be teased and say nothing. And we can wonder if a young woman might be penalized for assertive behavior that is routinely overlooked in young men, and what actions should be considered out of bounds for anyone.

Our children won’t face the epic evildoers of the DC Comics world, but they will certainly encounter, or flirt with being, pint-size tyrants. Those who seek to abuse power offer one model of how force can be employed. “Wonder Woman” offers another. Diana serves up a welcome example of a leader who draws her strength from her humanity, and uses it only to protect herself or to defend others.

In this respect, we should all want for our daughters to be like Wonder Woman, and our sons, too.

ComiXology, a digital distributor of comic books, will be expanding its library with exclusive comics.

ComiXology Originals will include “Adventure Time Marshall Lee Spectacular,” from BOOM! Studios, which chronicles the exploits of characters from the popular Cartoon Network show; the four-part “Valiant High,” from Valiant Entertainment, which gives the company’s heroes their greatest mission: survive high school; and the graphic novel “Harvey Kurtzman’s Marley’s Ghost,” an adaptation of Charles Dickens’s “A Christmas Carol,” which Mr. Kurtzman began in 1954 and never completed.

The move is akin to the original programming offered by Amazon and Netflix and the goal is attract and expand readership.

“We want to make sure there is a comic for everyone,” David Steinberger, the co-founder and chief executive of comiXology, said. “If it’s super successful and becomes its own thing, hallelujah. But we’ll continue to experiment to attract new readers and hit the core.”

ComiXology, founded in 2007, began selling in 2009 and was acquired by Amazon in 2014. The company started with 103 titles and today offers 300 to 500 comics a week. Its library now has 100,000 comics, manga and graphic novels.

The comics under the Originals program will be available only on comiXology and Kindle and will be overseen by Chip Mosher, the company’s head of content and senior director of communications. The comics, which do not yet have a publication date, will sell for $3.99, while the graphic novel, expected to be released in the winter of 2017, will be $9.99.

SAUGERTIES, N.Y. — Joe Sinnott says spider webs drive him crazy, even though he has been drawing them for over 50 years for one of the world’s most famous superheroes.

“They’ve got to be so accurate, and they’ve got to be the same all the time,’’ he said. “It takes me about three days to do two pages.”

At 90, Mr. Sinnott still brings to life the action tales spun by Stan Lee, the co-creator of Spider-Man, continuing a collaboration begun in 1950 when Mr. Sinnott first went to work for Mr. Lee at what later became Marvel Comics. “Imagine having the same boss for 67 years,” Mr. Sinnott said. He added that they should be in the Guinness World Records book.

With pen and brush, he keeps Spider-Man flying over New York City, soaring from skyscraper to skyscraper, in a never-ending battle against supervillains. “It just takes time putting all those lines, and the tiny spider on Spider-Man’s chest, in such a small space,” Mr. Sinnott said.

After 41 years at Marvel, where he produced thousands of comic books for the likes of Captain America, the Incredible Hulk and Fantastic Four, Mr. Sinnott retired to work exclusively on the Spider-Man Sunday comic strip, distributed by King Features to newspapers across America. Mr. Lee still develops the story line.

Spider-Man made his debut in 1962, when Peter Parker, a high school science nerd, according to the plot, gained superhuman powers after being bitten by a radioactive spider. Fifty-five years later, his crime-fighting adventures are still popular. The latest film version, “Spider-Man: Homecoming,” starring the English actor Tom Holland, will arrive in theaters on Friday.

Mr. Sinnott is not involved with the movie, but he is one of the people most responsible for Spider-Man’s longevity and legacy. To fans, collectors and fellow artists, Mr. Sinnott is hero, too, for the larger-than-life figures he creates.

“Joltin’ Joe Sinnott is one of the most talented, most capable and most dependable artists in the comics business,” said Mr. Lee, Marvel’s former publisher. “I’ve been lucky enough to work with him many years and cannot speak highly enough as to his talent and character.”

Mr. Sinnott is regularly asked by collectors worldwide to autograph prints, sketches and decades-old comic books, whose value increases significantly with his signature.

Despite such acclamation, Mr. Sinnott prefers small-town life in the Hudson Valley, where he has been his entire life except for service in the Navy during World War II and while attending the Cartoonists and Illustrators School — now the School of Visual Arts — in New York.

Producing the Spider-Man comic strip is a tag-team effort that crisscrosses the country, starting with Mr. Lee, whose office is in Beverly Hills, Calif. He sends the script to Alex Saviuk, an artist in Florida, for rough pencil drawings. Next, the work in progress goes to Janice Chiang in Woodstock, N.Y. — about 10 miles from Mr. Sinnott’s home studio — who hand-letters the dialogue in each comic panel.

“I’ve lettered 69,000 pages during my career, so I’ve seen a lot of art,” Ms. Chiang said. “Joe’s art is so clean and fresh every time you look at it. He makes the art jump.”

When she’s finished, the strip goes back to California for Mr. Lee’s approval and then to Mr. Sinnott, who is like the anchor in a four-person relay.

His job is turning rough pencil drawings into finished artwork. “It’s got to be inked with a brush and pen in black India ink,” Mr. Sinnott said. “They call it embellishing.”

Before publication, the strip heads across country one last time for coloring in California. Even as the newspaper industry has cratered in recent decades, “The Amazing Spider-Man” still appears in many papers, though a spokeswoman for King Features would not provide a precise count. The digital version of the comic has extended Spider-Man’s reach, and it appears on many websites.

Ms. Chiang believes Spider-Man’s popularity is based on Peter Parker’s determination to rise above personal difficulties in his quest to overcome evil with good. Unlike, say, the millionaire Bruce Wayne, who transforms into Batman, Parker is a humble middle-class young man, trying to help his Aunt May after his Uncle Ben’s murder.

“Given the political situation and turmoil in the world, what we do is create hope,” Ms. Chiang said. “That’s the power of Spider-Man around the world, the idea that I can be more. You find your strengths through struggle, and it’s using those strengths to do what’s best for all of us.”

As the Spider-Man comic strip narrative says, Peter Parker came to realize that “with great power there must also come — great responsibility!”

Mr. Saviuk said Spider-Man wouldn’t be the same without Mr. Sinnott. “His lines are so smooth, silky and polished-looking compared to other inkers,” he said.

Mr. Sinnott’s portfolio is also heavy on baseball and World War II Army illustrations. His brother, Jack, was killed in France in 1944. Baseball is in Mr. Sinnott’s blood because his mother, Catherine, was a cousin of John McGraw, the renowned manager of the New York Giants and a member of the Baseball Hall of Fame.

Mr. Sinnott credits a box of crayons he got as a birthday gift when he was a toddler for helping start his career. “I drew from the time I was 3 years old,” Mr. Sinnott said. “I wore those crayons down to nothing. I drew on paper bags, sidewalks, whatever I could.”

He added: “I tell kids in schools, you’ve got to keep drawing, and date everything so you know how you’re improving. You’ve got to keep working all the time.”

Growing up during the Great Depression, he couldn’t wait to spread Sunday comics on the living room floor. Strips like “Terry and the Pirates” — his favorite — “Jungle Jim” and “Flash Gordon” opened worlds of adventure and ignited his childhood imagination and creativity.

“It was a ball for a kid in the 1930s,” Mr. Sinnott said. “It was so exciting. You couldn’t wait to see this stuff. There was no TV.”

Like a poet or symphony-orchestra musician, Mr. Sinnott said his art comes from his soul, which explains why he is still working. “I’d be drawing anyway,” he said. “I’m always doodling. I like to make people happy. To see a kid smile when you give him a print you’ve signed to him, I love doing that.”

His handmade illustrations are something of an anomaly in today’s digital age.

“It might be a lost art, but it will be around 100 years from now,” Mr. Sinnott said. “I’m leaving something for my kids. I love the old comics. Really, it’s like an old movie that never goes away.”

The X-Men have battled evil mutants, killer robots and alien invaders, but now one of the most venerable franchises in the Marvel universe has found itself embroiled in a new — and unexpected — conflict: the religious and political tensions in Indonesia, the world’s most populous Muslim-majority nation.

On Saturday, Marvel said that it would remove artwork from the first issue of X-Men Gold, part of a reboot of the X-Men franchise, after readers in Indonesia raised alarm bells on Reddit and elsewhere on social media about what they said were anti-Christian and anti-Semitic messages in some panels of the comic.

The messages that jumped out to readers in Indonesia appeared to refer to political frictions there over Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, who is the first Christian governor of Jakarta, the capital, in more than 50 years. He is up for re-election this month.

Some images in the comic appeared to refer to hard-line Islamist opposition to Mr. Basuki, who is also known by the nickname Ahok. Others seemed to have less to do with Indonesian politics and more to do with anti-Semitism, the critics said. The artist who sneaked the messages into the images was Ardian Syaf, an Indonesian citizen.

The uproar added to headaches for Marvel, which was criticized in recent weeks after one of its executives seemed to blame a sales slump on reader disdain for female and nonwhite characters.

Marvel seemed surprised that references to religious intolerance had appeared in the pages of X-Men Gold, the reboot of one of its biggest properties. In a statement, the company said the artwork “was inserted without knowledge behind its reported meanings.”

“These implied references do not reflect the views of the writer, editors or anyone else at Marvel and are in direct opposition of the inclusiveness of Marvel Comics and what the X-Men have stood for since their creation,” the statement added. “This artwork will be removed from subsequent printings, digital versions, and trade paperbacks and disciplinary action is being taken.”

Marvel did not specify what disciplinary action it would take against Mr. Syaf, a freelance artist who has been penciling comics for Marvel and other companies since 2007, according to his personal website.

A spokesman for Marvel, Jeff Klein, declined to answer questions on Sunday about the company’s relationship with Mr. Syaf. Marvel mentioned him in promotional materials for X-Men Gold before it debuted last week, and in an interview published on Marvel.com last month, Mr. Syaf said the job was “like a dream come true.”

Mr. Syaf did not respond to an email seeking comment on Sunday, but he did address the controversy in a since-deleted Facebook post, according to ComicBook.com, a website that closely follows the comic book industry. It quoted him as writing “I don’t hate Christian or Jew” on Facebook and also saying that he has spoken with Marvel about the references he sprinkled throughout the issue.

Those references were specific to the tension in Indonesia; it seems unlikely that someone who did not follow the country’s complicated politics would have understood them.

In one panel of the comic, Colossus, an X-Men character, is wearing a shirt with “QS 5:51” on it. Indonesian readers said that was a reference to a verse in the Quran that Mr. Basuki’s opponents have used to argue that Christians and Jews cannot be trusted. Last year, Mr. Basuki was charged with blasphemy for speaking of that verse in a way that some viewed as disrespectful.

In another panel, the number “212” appears on a store front. Readers in Indonesia said that was a reference to a large anti-Basuki protest held by conservative Islamist groups in Jakarta last December.

That same image also depicted the X-Men’s leader, a high-profile Jewish superheroine called Kitty Pryde, in a way that some readers found upsetting. It showed her standing in front of a jewelry store sign so that the letters “J-E-W” were displayed next to her head.

G. Willow Wilson, the writer of the Marvel series Ms. Marvel, which stars a superpowered Muslim-American teenage girl, criticized Mr. Syaf’s actions and apparent political beliefs in a post on her personal website. She also worried that his actions might hurt other Muslims working in the industry.

“This is all to say that Ardian Syaf can keep his garbage philosophy,” she wrote. “He has committed career suicide; he will rapidly become irrelevant. But his nonsense will continue to affect the scant handful of Muslims who have managed to carve out careers in comics.”

Bernie Wrightson, a widely admired comic book artist who was known for his lush, intricate, otherworldly visions of horror and who was one of the creators of the popular DC Comics character Swamp Thing, died on March 18 in Austin, Tex. He was 68.

His death, at St. David’s South Austin Medical Center, was announced by his wife, Liz Wrightson, on Mr. Wrightson’s website. The cause was brain cancer, which had been diagnosed in 2014.

Besides his comic book work, Mr. Wrightson did illustrations for horror magazines and novels, including Mary Shelley’s 1818 classic, “Frankenstein,” and several by Stephen King. He also contributed character designs for films, including creatures, aliens and ghouls for “The Mist,” “Galaxy Quest” and the original “Ghostbusters.”

But his most famous creation was Swamp Thing, who first appeared in an issue of House of Secrets in 1971. The character was a tragic figure: an early-20th-century man transformed by a chemical explosion, unable to communicate to his wife that her new suitor was a murderer.

Swamp Thing, created with the writer Len Wein, was promoted to his own series in 1972, which contemporized his origin, set up his home base as Louisiana and introduced his love interest, Abigail Arcane. The character reached new levels of acclaim in the 1980s under the authorship of Alan Moore.

One of Mr. Wrightson’s most personal works was an adaptation in 1983 of “Frankenstein” for Marvel Comics, a project to which he devoted seven years. “He considered his Frankenstein illustrations to be his magnum opus,” his wife said in an email.

The horror website Bloody Disgusting called Mr. Wrightson’s black-and-white “Frankenstein” illustrations an “exquisitely detailed and extravagant vision” rendered in “a beautifully distinguished period style of art.”

The drawings, which recall the precise pen-and-ink work of the early-20th-century artist Franklin Booth, are stunning in their obsessive attention to minutiae. In one double-page spread, the monster — with throbbing neck and muscled forearms — confronts his maker in a laboratory so bountiful with detailed paraphernalia that it could be a hoarder’s fantasia.

“They are amazing pieces of work,” said Louise Simonson, a veteran comic book writer and editor. “He was such a perfectionist. If something didn’t come out quite right, he’d just toss it aside and start a new page.”

Bernard Albert Wrightson was born in Dundalk, Md., on Oct. 27, 1948, and learned his craft from studying comics and from correspondence courses.

His talent seemed fully realized from the beginning, said Ms. Simonson, who met him in New York City around 1967. “He brought into town this really great short story, ‘Uncle Bill’s Barrel,’ ” she said. “You could just look at it and tell he was going somewhere.”

“The Man Who Murdered Himself,” his first published work, appeared in House of Mystery, from DC, in 1969. Two years later, Ms. Simonson served as a model for Mr. Wrightson for the cover of Swamp Thing’s first appearance. (She is the woman being spied on by the boggy creature.)

Since then, Swamp Thing has starred in feature films, in 1982 and 1989, and a USA Network television series, from 1990 to 1993. A less murky, more child-friendly version of the character is voiced by Mark Hamill in the animated series “Justice League Action,” which began last year. Swamp Thing appears in more familiar form in the R-rated “Justice League Dark,” a straight-to-video animated film from Warner Home Video that appeared on DVD and Blu-ray in February.

Mr. Wrightson’s formative years in comics were a time before Federal Express and the internet allowed artists to work globally. The comic book writer and artist Walter Simonson, Louise’s husband, who is perhaps best known for his work on Marvel’s Thor, said that one of the great joys of working then was running into fellow creators at the office.

During one encounter, Mr. Simonson recalled, he saw a full-page drawing of a werewolf by Mr. Wrightson, from Swamp Thing No. 4. “It was just an incredible shot,” he said. “You’d go back and juice yourself up and say ‘I have to get better,’ because Bernie was so far ahead of everyone else.”

In 1974, Mr. Wrightson began working at Warren Publishing, where his work, including original material and adaptations of stories by Edgar Allan Poe and H. P. Lovecraft, appeared in Creepy and Eerie magazines.

During this time, he experimented with different approaches to his black-and-white work: pen and ink, brush, ink wash and gray marker. The next year he formed a studio with fellow artists to pursue projects outside of comics, and he began producing prints, posters and calendars. He also created “The Monsters,” a coloring book.

Mr. Wrightson’s first marriage, to Michele Wrightson, ended in divorce. She died in 2015. In addition to Liz Wrightson, Mr. Wrightson is survived by two sons, John and Jeffrey, and a stepson, Thomas Adamson.

It might be easy to think that an artist who created such grim images would harbor a dark soul, but Mr. Wrightson has been remembered in tributes for his kindness. He was especially warm toward comic fans.

“Bernie loved attending conventions and seeing fans grow over the years, many eventually bringing their own children to meet him,” Ms. Wrightson wrote.

He was also known for his good humor, captured by the greeting on his Facebook page: “Welcome, and stay eerie!”