LOS ANGELES — For the powerful music manager Scooter Braun, there were a few mythic figures who proved influential in his formative years. As a child, he was obsessed with Superman; later he became an intense devotee of the X-Men. But as his eyes began shifting toward moguldom, Mr. Braun’s heroes turned more earthbound.

“I read a book about my mentor David Geffen when I was 19, and he said music was the fastest way in because a song could change your life in a night while film and TV takes years,” Mr. Braun, 36, said recently at his casual home office. “I actually always wanted to be in film.”

Best known for masterminding the career of a onetime YouTube prodigy named Justin Bieber, Mr. Braun, who also manages Kanye West and Ariana Grande, has dabbled over the years in the movie business, executive producing the 2014 adaptation of “The Giver,” this year’s Sundance drama “Burden” and several concert documentaries for Mr. Bieber, among other projects.

But Mr. Braun, as is his tendency, wants bigger. For his next Geffen-esque act, he is leaping more fully into film, partnering with David Maisel, the founding chairman of Marvel Studios, to form a new company, Mythos Studios, which aspires to make its own hit comic-book movie franchises in live-action and animated formats. Successes like “Black Panther” notwithstanding, the venture comes at a challenging time in the film industry, with ticket sales declining last year and competition from streaming services ratcheting up.

Mythos, the pair said in a joint interview, has a well of intellectual property to start from: The company owns a 50 percent stake in Aspen Comics, the brainchild of the cult illustrator Michael Turner, who died  in 2008. Mythos is currently developing several projects, including adaptations of the Aspen comics “Soulfire” and “Fathom,” a best-selling title upon its release in 1998. The studio is also interested in original material, and is pursuing projects in the public domain, its founders said.

But intellectual property aside, the new business is most likely to draw industry interest for its Avengers-like joining of executive forces.

While Mr. Braun has a reputation as a generational talent-spotter and social-media marketer, Mr. Maisel, 55, was an early architect of Marvel’s world-dominating plan to stop licensing its characters to Hollywood studios and instead self-finance its own movies, beginning with “Iron Man” in 2008. After the company was sold to Disney for $4 billion the following year, Mr. Maisel left; he went on to develop and produce “The Angry Birds Movie,” which, while scoffed at by critics, made $350 million worldwide. That project also got Mr. Maisel thinking about combining comics and all-ages animation for the big screen.

A Harvard M.B.A. who came up as a Hollywood dealmaker under the Creative Artists Agency co-founder Michael Ovitz, Mr. Maisel is also a comic-book obsessive who wore a “Fathom” T-shirt to the interview and brought along a collection of hero figurines.

“I never understood what he was doing, but I always knew he was really, really smart,” Kevin Huvane, the power agent and managing partner at C.A.A., said of Mr. Maisel. “He has this encyclopedic knowledge of comic books and treats them like real art, with a savant-like ability to take out characters that appeal to him and make them really relevant.”

Together with Mr. Braun, “a connector with access and knowledge of pop culture in all mediums,” Mr. Huvane said, the two make an “explosive combo.”

The Mythos founders met over dinner about five years ago — they had a mutual friend in Kanye West, they discovered — and remained in touch as Mr. Braun’s SB Projects expanded its non-music division under the chief operating officer Scott Manson. As Mr. Maisel circled the Aspen Comics titles, Mr. Braun jumped at the chance to partner with someone whose “main interest is doing the work,” he said. “You don’t see David in all the social circles or at all the parties, but what you do see is a name associated with some of the most amazing properties out there.”

Mr. Manson, who as a longtime friend of Mr. Braun’s refers to his role as “managing the manager,” will serve as a bridge between the Mythos founders. “Scooter’s not going to sit in a boardroom for eight hours,” Mr. Manson said. “That’s why we love David and why we’re partners.”

As part of the deal, Mr. Braun agreed to fund Mythos’s development costs for multiple years through his holding company, Ithaca, while the venture considers moving forward independently, partnering with an existing studio or working with a digital player like Netflix or Amazon. (They won’t disclose a budget.)

Mr. Braun will also provide a potential pipeline for talent (and soundtracks), with the obvious question being: Will Mr. Bieber end up a superhero?

Mr. Braun laughed. “There will be synergies,” he said. “If any of the talent we work with wants to be a part of the projects we’re doing, we welcome them to join us on this journey. I’ve already had conversations with certain talent that are very excited about being a part of this.”

The other question many will have is whether Mythos can break through a glut of comic-book movies with a collection of largely unknown characters. (“Fathom,” about a marine biologist and Olympic swimmer who turns out to be part of an underwater race of humanoids, was once teased as a movie starring Megan Fox, but never happened.)

“Are they as popular as Superman or Batman? No,” Mr. Braun said. “But why do people know the name Forrest Gump? If you tell a great story, people will care.”

Mr. Maisel acknowledged that it’s “a crowded environment out there,” but he recalled being scoffed at for attempting to revitalize Marvel with so-called “D-list characters.”

“It’s hard to think of it now, but at the time even Iron Man people thought of as a triathlon sporting event,” he said. “What I’ve enjoyed doing in my career is to see opportunities that aren’t obvious.”

Mr. Braun added: “We both come from a background of being second-guessed our entire career. I was second-guessed on Ariana Grande, ‘Gangnam Style,’ ‘Call Me Maybe,’ ” he said, ticking off hits. “That’s usually the direction we ran in.”

The adventures of the League of Extraordinary Gentlemen are coming to an end.

The comic book series, by the acclaimed team of Alan Moore and Kevin O’Neill, will wrap things up with “The Tempest” in June. The news was announced by a spokesman for the publisher during a panel at the San Diego Comic-Con on Thursday afternoon.

The final six-part installment of the series will also serve as the swan song from the comic industry for Mr. Moore, who had previously announced his retirement, and for Mr. O’Neill.

“This is the absolute final one,” Mr. O’Neill said in a phone interview. “We’re having a ball with it. I’ve never heard Alan happier.”

Happy is not a word normally associated with Mr. Moore, who is one of the most prominent writers in comics, known for works that helped usher in a new level of emotional maturity to the medium. Chief among his accomplishments are writing Swamp Thing, a horror title about an elemental creature, and Watchmen, which was drawn by Dave Gibbons, about a group of flawed heroes and a world on the brink of nuclear holocaust.

Watchmen was serialized from 1986 to 1987 and became a perennial best seller as a collected edition. But the series soured his relationship with DC Comics, who retained control over the characters, and who in 2012 rolled out a companion series, Before Watchmen. Mr. Moore did not support of the idea and thought Watchmen should stand on its own.

“There weren’t that many prequels or sequels to ‘Moby-Dick,’ he said in an interview about the project.

Things are less contentious with The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, which unites characters from across literature. The first iteration of the adventurers included Mina Murray, a victim of Bram Stoker’s “Dracula”; the Invisible Man from H.G. Wells’s work of that name; Dr. Jekyll (and Mr. Hyde) from Robert Louis Stevenson’s “The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde”; and Jules Verne’s Captain Nemo from “Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea.” In 2011, The Guardian described the comics as “a blazing world of the imagination and one of the triumphs of recent British fiction.”

The series also inspired a 2003 film starring Sean Connery as Allan Quatermain (from H. Rider Haggard’s “King Solomon’s Mines”) and was less beloved. A review in The New York Times described the movie as listless and “neither gentle nor extraordinary.” The film earned $66 million domestically and $179 million worldwide. Plans for a reboot were announced in 2015.

“I’ve always been glad that the collected editions probably made far more than the movie ever did,” Mr. O’Neill said, with some exaggeration. “It has been very good to us.” (Mr. Moore declined a request for comment.)

“The Tempest,” which is published by Top Shelf Productions and by Knockabout, will tie up loose ends from the previous volumes.

Mr. O’Neill was reluctant to reveal any details in order to reserve surprises for readers. “When I was a kid, I could remember the delight of seeing Spider-Man for the first time,” he said. “Now everything is explored in great detail before it happens.”

The long-anticipated “Black Panther” film debuted in theaters on Feb. 17, and the response from critics and fans has been overwhelmingly positive. The movie earned $387 million in its opening weekend, which makes it the highest-grossing film of all time by a black director. If you want to dive deeper into the world of black comics, here are three books to start you off.

BLACK COMICSPolitics of Race and RepresentationEdited by Sheena C. Howard288 pp. Bloomsbury Academic. (2013)

Howard, who wrote “Encyclopedia of Black Comics,” presents a collection of analytical essays that explore the historical and vast contributions of black artists to the graphic book genre, including comic strips, political cartoons, manga and graphic novels. One essay, “Brief History of the Black Comic Strip: Past and Present,” chronicles the work of black creators starting in the 1920s, while other contributors contextualize the work of black creators, explaining how they tackled themes such as the intersection of gender and race and incorporated political and social commentary in their comics.

BLACK PANTHERA Nation Under Our Feet (Book 1)By Ta-Nehisi Coates, Illustrated by Brian Stelfreeze144 pp. Marvel. (2016)

If watching “Black Panther” left you wanting to know more about the Wakanda universe, consider Coates’s first book in his reprise of the classic comic. Wakanda is threatened by a superhuman terrorist group called The People, which is deploying suicide bombers and poisoning the population against the king and current Black Panther, T’Challa. He must quell a violent uprising and lead the country through necessary change. Other heroes, like Storm and Luke Cage, join him to help save Wakanda.

BROTHERMANDictator of Discipline, Revelation (Book 1)By Guy Sims, Illustrated by Dawud Anyabwile and Brian McGee110 pp. Big City Entertainment. (2016)

Originally conceived in the early 1990s by three brothers, the “Brotherman” comic series is considered a cornerstone of contemporary black comic culture. It follows Antonio Valor, a public attorney in Big City who doubles as Brotherman, a realistic hero who combats delinquency in his crime-ridden city. This graphic novel — the first in what will be a series of three — tells Brotherman’s origin story, and reintroduces the character to a modern audience.

By the mighty hammer of Thor, it has not been a good week for Marvel Comics.

The company has taken a beating on social media and in the news media since one of its executives seemingly linked poor sales to a lack of enthusiasm for newer characters who were female or had more diverse backgrounds, like a black Captain America, a Korean-American Hulk or a female Thor.

While “Marvel Blames Diversity” makes for a juicy headline, the issue is more nuanced.

As Brian Hibbs, the owner of the two Comix Experience stores in San Francisco, said in an interview, Marvel has recently been experiencing a “massive sales slump” because of more basic factors: the frequent restarting of series with new No. 1 issues; fan fatigue over story lines that promise changes but fail to deliver; and the introduction of a deluge of new series. There is also the expense of comic collecting.

This month, for instance, Marvel began rolling out a revamped lineup of X-Men titles, which will result in seven new series — two of which will publish twice a month, the other five monthly. That’s a lot of comic books, and they run an average of $3.99 each.

The first issues will undoubtedly sell well thanks to the multiple covers and the collector’s tendency to buy them all. But subsequent issues are expected to follow the industry pattern of lower sales over time.

Marvel doesn’t have “more than one or two comics selling 60,000 or 70,000 copies,” Mr. Hibbs said, adding that this trend has virtually nothing to do with “this diversity canard.”

Marvel’s slump began in October. The company’s average market share from that month through February was 37 percent, a drop of 4.8 percentage points when compared with October 2015 through February 2016. By comparison, the average market share for DC Comics for October through this February was about 29 percent, almost 4 percentage points higher than that same period the previous years.

The falloff for Marvel was one reason the company held a two-day meeting with retailers last week, which led to the diversity firestorm. Asked about the tastes of Marvel’s readership, David Gabriel, the company’s vice president for sales, said, “What we heard was that people didn’t want any more diversity.” The statement went viral, and though Mr. Gabriel tried to clarify his comments and signal Marvel’s commitment to diversity, coverage of his remarks ran in Entertainment Weekly, The Guardian, Breitbart and many other media outlets.

The Telegraph of London said that the comments “remain a troubling example of the struggles facing storytelling that places nonwhite faces” at the forefront.

The outcry is not a surprise. Diversity “is a hot topic in culture, pop culture and geek culture; it is understandable that there is a reaction,” said Milton Griepp, the chief executive of ICv2, an online trade publication that covers the comic book industry.

Mr. Griepp attended the meeting, which included representatives of 14 retail organizations that are among Marvel’s top 300 comic book sellers. But only two of the representatives remarked that comics with nonwhite lead characters did not sell well for them, he said. A majority noted that those titles were bringing in new readers.

Executives at Marvel Comics did not respond to requests for an interview this week.

It is difficult to judge the popularity of the newly conceived characters based on the sales figures alone because so many heroes make the leap to television and film.

In February, Ms. Marvel, about Kamala Khan, a teenage Muslim girl living in Jersey City, sold an estimated 19,870 copies. It landed at 109 out of the top 300 comics for the month. But the series is known to be doing well digitally and with collected editions. There are also other signs of prestige. This week, a collected edition of the series, “Ms. Marvel: Super Famous,” written by G. Willow Wilson and illustrated by Takeshi Miyazawa, was nominated for a Hugo Award, which is given to the best science-fiction or fantasy stories.

Ms. Wilson had a lot to say about the Marvel diversity firestorm on her blog, including one critical point that complicates the situation for legacy characters like the female Thor. She noted that they might be better embraced if the original hero had not been humiliated in the process.

Case in point: It is hard right now to root for Steve Rogers, the original Captain America, thanks to cosmic shenanigans that have reimagined him as a longtime agent of Hydra, a Nazi-like organization.

On the same day last May that Steve Rogers was revealed to be a villain — however long that will last — DC Comics went the opposite way. The company published Rebirth, in which many heroes who had been pushed aside during a 2011 reboot returned. The reboot focused on new versions of the company’s characters at the beginning of their careers. Since Rebirth, the DC universe has been more hopeful.

There is also a sense of optimism that runs through Ms. Marvel, but there is no clear formula that resulted in its success. It depicts heroics, teen angst and struggles for assimilation. Ms. Willow posits that the comic’s mix of traditionalist faith and social justice struck a chord with readers. What she is clear about, however, is the use of the “diversity” label.

“Let’s scrap the word diversity entirely and replace it with authenticity and realism,” she posted. “This is not a new world. This is the world.”

In comics, Batman was born in Crime Alley, when Bruce Wayne saw the lives of his parents come to an end during a robbery gone wrong.

In real life, however, Batman was born in the Bronx. And his creators — the cartoonist Bob Kane and the writer Bill Finger — would meet at Poe Park to discuss the character.

On a chilly Friday morning last week, a crowd of around 100 friends, family and fans of Batman gathered to celebrate a comic book milestone: the south corner of East 192nd Street and Grand Concourse was renamed Bill Finger Way. It was the latest acknowledgment of Mr. Finger’s role in bringing life to one of the most successful comic characters ever, a contribution that had been suppressed for more than 75 years.

“It’s hard to imagine an artistic achievement more iconic than the creation of Batman,” Councilman Ritchie J. Torres said at the street-naming ceremony. “The irony here is that even though the creation itself is famous and iconic, the creator is obscure. Our goal is to change that.”

“It’s unusual to have this kind of overwhelming response for a street naming, but it is well deserved,” Mr. Torres said of the crowd, which included the actor Kevin Conroy, who lends his voice to Bruce Wayne and the Dark Knight in animation, and Athena Finger, Bill’s granddaughter. There were also lots of fans — including a man in full Batman costume — with a passion for seeing justice done, even if meant being late for work.

“I braved the bridge tolls,” said Peter L. Brown, who was determined to witness the event. “If no one was going to be here, I had to be,” he said.

Comic book fans are a passionate and devoted lot. They can make sense of decades of complex and sometimes contradictory story lines. Some of them will even roll up their sleeves, undertake detective work and fight to right a wrong.

One of those fans is Lenny Schwartz, who wrote a 2015 play about the tribulations of Mr. Finger, “Co-Creator: The Man Behind the Bat.” He was at Poe Park with his wife, Sarah Schwartz, and their daughter, Callie. “It was a slow boil,” Ms. Schwartz said of Mr. Finger’s belated recognition, “but finally, here we are.” The Schwartzes were down from Providence, R.I., where Mr. Schwartz is the artistic director of the Daydream Theater Company, which produced “Co-Creator.” (After the show opened, an article in The Providence Journal noted, “It’s hard not to watch the unfolding of the ruthless relationship between Finger and Bob Kane, who took all the credit for the comic-book series.”)

“I love to tell stories about social injustices, and this was one of the saddest things that ever happened,” Mr. Schwartz said. Mr. Finger was born in Denver on Feb. 8, 1914. His family moved to the Bronx during the Great Depression. Despite having helped create one of the most enduring characters in the world, the writer died in 1974, penniless and alone, Mr. Schwartz said.

The author Marc Tyler Nobleman is also well versed in this episode of comic book lore. His championing of credit for Mr. Finger is chronicled in the Hulu documentary “Batman & Bill,” which was released earlier this year. “Bob Kane drew only a fraction of the stories — and for only the first few years — and did not write a single Batman story in his life,” Mr. Nobleman said during his speech at the street ceremony. “From the start, he was the sole person credited. Holy fake news, Batman!”

Mr. Nobleman’s quest took years of dedication and lots of allies, whom he calls “Team Finger.”

Superman had come out just the year before, and publishers were looking for more heroes. Mr. Kane had an idea for one, then known as Bat-Man. He turned to Bill Finger, who he employed as a ghostwriter on a couple of comic strips. Mr. Kane’s initial concept had a figure in a red suit with a small mask and stiff wings. Mr. Finger darkened the costume, suggested a cowl with pointed ears and replaced the wings with a scallop-edged cape.

It was a hit.

Mr. Kane went on his own to National Comics Publications, the forerunner of DC Comics, with the concept and kept full credit. In the documentary, Mr. Nobleman offered some Batman history: the possible existence of a contract negotiated by Mr. Kane that would name him as sole creator for perpetuity. “This infamous Bob Kane contract has never been publicly disclosed — as is expected,” he said. “These are big characters, big companies — they have no obligation to share.” Mr. Finger’s contributions would not be publicly known until 1965. That was when a determined fan, Jerry Bails, realized that Bob Kane could not possibly be writing and drawing every Batman story on his own. Mr. Bails researched and produced a two-page mimeographed article, “If the Truth Be Known or ‘A Finger in Every Plot!’” which finally gave Batman’s other father credit. (Mr. Finger’s other additions to the Batman mythos include naming Bruce Wayne, Dick Grayson, the Batmobile, Gotham City and Commissioner Gordon.)

Mr. Kane refuted the claims until 1989, when he admitted in his autobiography, “Batman and Me,” written with Tom Andrae, that Mr. Finger did not receive the recognition he deserved. Mr. Kane died in 1998.

Mr. Nobleman’s doggedness in his quest included calling all 500 people in the search results of Florida residents with the last name of Finger. Eventually, his obsessive research paid off, and he found the writer’s granddaughter Athena Finger. (Her Myspace page, which included a picture of her dog, Bruce Wayne, was a good omen.) He felt an heir would be critical to getting DC Comics to change the Batman credit, though she had already been discouraged by previous efforts to make it happen.

In 2012, Mr. Nobleman’s children’s book, “Bill the Boy Wonder: the Secret Co-Creator of Batman,” illustrated by Ty Templeton, was released around the same time as “The Dark Knight Rises,” the final film in the Christopher Nolan Batman trilogy starring Christian Bale. Before the movie came out, Ms. Finger said, she was offered a payment from Warner Bros., which owns DC Comics. (A spokesman for the company would not comment on the matter.) Accepting it would mean terminating all future claims on Batman. Instead, she began telling her story on the comic book convention circuit. “This is what’s right. This is what’s just,” the director and comic-book fan Kevin Smith said in the Hulu documentary.

On Sept. 18, 2015, DC Entertainment announced an agreement with the family that recognized Mr. Finger’s significant contributions to the Batman family of characters. The next month, the credit line “Batman created by Bob Kane with Bill Finger” began to appear on comic books. It was also included in the 2016 film “Batman Vs. Superman” and in this year’s “Justice League.”

Mr. Nobleman said he could not be more thrilled with the developments and talked about them at that Bronx street corner, near where the magic happened: “Bill Finger made history. Team Finger corrected history. Now the Bronx takes the lead in honoring that history by installing this sign, the first memorial to a superhero creator in New York, the superhero capital of the world.”

Ever the crusader, he ended on what may be his new mission: “Next step is a statue.”

Stay tuned, Batfans.

America Chavez, a Latina and lesbian superhero, saves an alien planet, enrolls at Sotomayor University and punches Adolf Hitler in the first issue of her new Marvel comic book series. But what’s being celebrated as most fantastic in this comic is that Gabby Rivera, a young-adult author who is gay and Latina herself, is writing the adventures of America.

While the comic book industry has been making great strides in its efforts to reflect the real world in its characters, the same has not always been true of their creators, who have typically been straight, white and male. But the ratio of representation continues to change. David F. Walker, who is black, is writing a new Luke Cage series for Marvel that begins in May; that same month introduces a  superhero universe from Lion Forge, with a diverse team of creators and characters, including Noble, the flagship hero who is black; and this summer will see the return of Kim & Kim, from Black Mask Studios, about two bounty hunters, one a trans woman, the other bisexual, written by Magdalene Visaggio, who is transgender. They join the growing list of comic book series with diverse characters at the forefront.

For a long time, “the American comic book industry has marginalized and excluded the voices of writers of color,” said Joseph Phillip Illidge, a senior editor at Lion Forge Comics. That has caused some fans to ask that characters of color have their stories done by creators of color.

When characters and creators share a special bond, there is an increased chance of authenticity. That seems to be the case in Ms. Rivera’s work on America, judging by the early reviews. “One big part of this book’s personality is that it allows America to be totally, unapologetically queer,” wrote Kat Overland on the website Women Write About Comics. “It’s the same with her brownness. She’s Latina, style-wise, speech-wise, everything, and it feels natural.”

America Chavez’s rise to prominence took some twists and turns. Joe Casey and Nick Dragotta created her in 2011, but she gained popularity as a supporting character later, in two series by two other creative teams (whose writers and artists are also men). With her solo title, the heroine and writer are now in sync. (Mr. Casey and Mr. Dragotta will be presenting an upstart version of their creation in All-America Comix, starring America Vasquez, being published by Image this year.)

A Latin experience is also at the heart of La Borinqueña, a Puerto Rican heroine created by Edgardo Miranda-Rodriguez last year. As a young fan, Mr. Miranda-Rodriguez said that he did not find characters who looked like him, but he managed to forge connections with alien all-American heroes, billionaire orphans and warrior women. Now, as a father of two, he demands more. “When you grow up, not seeing yourself, it slowly eats away at you,” he said.

In the world of independent comics, Love and Rockets, by the brothers Gilbert and Jaime (and sometimes Mario) Hernandez, has been one of the most consistent depictions of Latinos. Fantagraphics has published the series since 1982. “One of the conscious decisions was to have people of color because that’s what I knew growing up,” said Gilbert Hernandez, who is Mexican-American. He noted that the younger generation, which is always more progressive, has come to expect multicultural depictions.

Having creators and characters be of similar backgrounds may also be an opportunity to right past wrongs. Gene Luen Yang, who is chronicling the exploits of Kenan Kong, a Chinese Man of Steel in New Super-Man, is bringing back a regrettable caricature from 1937. Chin Lung was a “yellow peril” villain who personified fears of the East. “DC used an image that dehumanized an entire group of people to sell comics,” Mr. Yang said in an email. The character would be difficult for most writers to tackle, but Mr. Yang has an edge. “Do I think that it’s easier for a Chinese-American writer to do something like this? Absolutely. It goes back to the homework question. Because I’m a Chinese-American, I got a head start on my homework because I lived it.”

A more welcome remake happened recently in the pages of Midnighter & Apollo, from DC Comics, written by Steve Orlando, who is bisexual. Mr. Orlando reintroduced Extrano, a suicidal H.I.V.-positive gay man named Gregorio, who debuted in 1988. Gregorio now shuns his Extrano persona and is more confident. “With a book like Midnighter & Apollo, which from cover to cover is a love letter to queer characters and our struggle to live, be visible and love, it felt right to return to one of the first and reintroduce Gregorio to a new generation,” Mr. Orlando said.

While having diversity among creators and characters is a step forward, more needs to be done, said Mr. Illidge, who also writes for Comic Book Resources (cbr.com), where he spotlights diversity in comics and popular entertainment. “The ultimate answer cannot be that people can only write characters that reflect their experience,” he said. “Part of the answer should be that companies that publish books that contain a significant number of characters of color should have a significant number of writers of color in their talent pool.” Ultimately, “the more diverse voices you have in the room, the greater the worldview you’ll get in your fiction.”

Jay Lynch, an artist, writer and satirist who was a central figure in the underground comics revolution of the 1960s and ’70s, died on March 5 at his home in Candor, N.Y. He was 72.

His cousin Valerie Snowden said the cause was lung cancer.

Mr. Lynch, who had a wry, deadpan sense of humor, held strong views about the importance of underground comics, which differentiated themselves from the mainstream through raunchy and grotesque depictions of sex, drugs and violence.

“Underground comix were the most important art movement of the 20th century,” he wrote, using the “comics” spelling preferred by underground cartoonists, in the introduction to “Underground Classics: The Transformation of Comics Into Comix” (2009), by Denis Kitchen and James Danky.

“Copies of many of the early books sell to collectors for many thousands of dollars,” he continued. “It’s all quite ironic: Rebellious cartoonists mocking consumer culture were inadvertently producing collectible artifacts for the same consumer culture 40 years down the road.”

Mr. Lynch played several roles in the underground comics world. Using a retro style with a tight crosshatching technique, he created comics like “Nard n’ Pat,” about a conservative man who bickers with a hip cat.

“It was sweetly rooted in the past,” the cartoonist Art Spiegelman said in an interview. “Two characters who oddly refracted the themes of old comic strips, but now they surrealistically dealt with sex, drugs and cheap thrills.”

Mr. Lynch founded Bijou Funnies with his fellow cartoonist Skip Williamson to publish his work and that of other artists, and acted as a publicist for the loosely defined industry.

“He put people together,” said Patrick Rosenkranz, who is writing a biography of Mr. Lynch. “He publicized what was going on. In the back of Bijou, he had small free ads for other underground comics. He was a crossroads figure.”

But his most significant role might have been as an archivist of underground comics history. He kept nearly everything from his teenage years on: letters, original art, comics, fan magazines, merchandise and publicity campaigns. He donated it all to the Billy Ireland Cartoon Library and Museum at Ohio State University.

“We have letters between 14-year-old Art Spiegelman and 17-year-old Jay talking about their favorite EC Comics and Mad magazines — and about reading the first issue of Spider-Man,” said Caitlin McGurk, the museum’s associate curator.

Mr. Spiegelman recalled that about a year ago he asked Mr. Lynch to let him see some of their old letters.

“So he sent me a bulging three-inch-thick binder with a Xerox of every letter he received from 1961 to 1963,” he said. “He kept all this history so well organized, but if you had taken a camera pan of the rest of his daily life, it would have been the opposite.”

Mr. Lynch’s early life was a bit unconventional. Jay Patrick Lynch was born in Orange, N.J., on Jan. 7, 1945, and grew up in Belmar. His father, William, and his mother, the former Alice Mangan, divorced when he was young, and he was raised in his grandmother’s house, surrounded by aunts, uncles, his cousin Ms. Snowden and his grandfather.

At age 11, he moved with his family to Miami, where he focused on his artwork, painting murals for neighbors’ homes and stage sets for school productions. He later moved to Chicago, where he attended the Art Institute.

The education that pointed him to his future in underground comics was provided by Mad magazine, whose editorial mastermind was Harvey Kurtzman, and The Realist, a satirical political journal founded by Paul Krassner in 1958.

“After reading my first issue of The Realist, I was in a daze which almost bordered on frenzied religious ecstasy,” Mr. Lynch was quoted as saying in Mr. Rosenkranz’s book “Rebel Visions: The Underground Comix Revolution” (2008). “Here was a magazine that pointed out, through satire, the hypocrisies in the society that nobody else dared even speak of, let alone print discussions of.”

His path to underground comics took him through fanzines, college humor magazines and alternative newspapers. He contributed to Wild, Cracked, Whack and Sick magazines.

He and Mr. Williamson began a humor and comics magazine, Chicago Mirror, which they turned into Bijou Funnies, after the transformational publication of Robert Crumb’s Zap No. 1 in 1968, which featured the big-footed, long-bearded, guru-like Mr. Natural.

Mr. Lynch’s comics never reached as broad an audience as some of his more famous brethren’s. Mr. Rosenkranz suggested that this might have been because he did not use sex as much in his work as others and was not part of the so-called “slash and drip” school of underground cartoonists.

“He was more interested in intellectual ideas,” he said.

Some of Mr. Lynch’s work reached the mainstream — through Playboy in the 1980s, but more regularly through Topps, the trading card company, which provided an income for artists like Mr. Spiegelman and Mr. Lynch. “They were our Medicis,” Mr. Spiegelman said.

Over a few decades, Mr. Lynch illustrated Bazooka Joe comics; Garbage Pail Kids, which began as a satire of Cabbage Patch Kids; and Wacky Packages, which parodied consumer culture. He recalled that he was told which food conglomerates not to mock, but with a list of products that he could parody, “I would go to the supermarket and buy those products.”

Ira Friedman, a Topps vice president, said in an interview, “Jay was at the epicenter of Wacky Packages.”

He also branched into children’s books, including a collaboration with Frank Cammuso on “Otto’s Orange Day” (2013) and “Otto’s Backwards Day” (2013).

Mr. Lynch was divorced twice and had no children.

When he resurrected “Nard n’ Pat” for the cover of Mineshaft magazine in 2015, he seemed to split his life into his two creations. He drew Nard busily typing and telling Pat: “And thus, kitty-kat, while you draw cartoons to cleverly illustrate mankind’s folly, I textually chronicle my astute observations on life’s passing parade. Alas! What fools these mortals be!”

Filling in a comics panel at a drawing table, Pat says: “You said it, Boss! Fun, fun, fun, ’til Daddy takes the T-square away.”