When Ta-Nehisi Coates’s first book, “The Beautiful Struggle,” was published in 2008, it landed with barely a ripple. At the time, Mr. Coates was a struggling writer. He had lost three jobs, and he and his family relied on unemployment checks, his wife’s income and occasional support from his father to stay afloat. By the time the book came out in paperback, his fortune had shifted slightly; he’d become a regular contributor to The Atlantic magazine, writing a blog that attracted a moderate but engaged audience.

“I went and did a few events. I did one in Brooklyn and I did one in San Francisco, and maybe 30 people showed up. And I thought, ‘This is what I want. This is it,’” he said in a conversation over a recent lunch.

Suffice it to say that Mr. Coates’s second book, “Between the World and Me,” published in 2015, did not suffer the same lack of readership. An early galley was sent to Toni Morrison, who strongly endorsed the book, calling it “required reading” and likening Mr. Coates to James Baldwin. That year, Mr. Coates was awarded a MacArthur Fellowship and the National Book Award in nonfiction. His appearances filled auditoriums and the book was adopted on college syllabuses. It has sold 1.5 million copies internationally and has been translated into 19 languages, catapulting him to prominence.

At the age of 41 (he turns 42 on Saturday), Mr. Coates has become one of the most influential black intellectuals of his generation, joining predecessors including Ms. Morrison, Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr., and Dr. Cornel West. “He’s a rock star,” said Dr. Nell Irvin Painter, professor emeritus of American history at Princeton University, adding that Mr. Coates is asking questions that even “other historians have not been asking.”

His new book, “We Were Eight Years in Power: An American Tragedy,” traces this ascent. In it, he collects articles he wrote for The Atlantic during Barack Obama’s presidency, interspersing them with explanatory, autobiographical essays. The book goes on sale Tuesday, Oct. 3, and already, his book-tour stop at Brooklyn’s Kings Theater has sold out — a far cry from the intimate crowds of his early career.

In the beginning of September, about a month before his book was to be published, Mr. Coates gave a preliminary reading at BLVD Bistro, a soul-food restaurant in Harlem tucked into the ground floor of a brownstone that preserves old-school features like brick walls and a tin ceiling. Mr. Coates stood at the head of the room, in front of a large wall decal of James Baldwin’s face lined with the words, “Our crown has already been bought and paid for. All we have to do is wear it.” He wore a white button-down shirt, jeans and blue and white Nike sneakers.

The event was brimming with people close to Mr. Coates: his wife, son and mother; the New Yorker writer Jelani Cobb; Barry Jenkins, the director of “Moonlight”; and Dr. Painter, among others. Mr. Coates was comfortable and relaxed, joking once about the rap music that blasted in through the windows as a car drove by — “That’s so appropriate, being upstaged by Kendrick.” He seemed, in that moment, perfectly settled in between the intellectualism and hip-hop that influenced him, freed from, as he describes in “We Were Eight Years,” “those young years trapped between the schools and the streets.”

When the discussion was opened up to the audience, one attendee, Adrian Hopkins, asked how Mr. Coates advised his son on the subject of political activism. Mr. Coates answered that his own father had been part of the Black Panther Party and had later become disillusioned with mass politics. Mr. Coates’s advice to his son, Samori, was to educate himself before getting involved in protests. “I don’t know that that was the correct answer,” he said, “Protest is a very, very real thing, but for me, it’s much more private.”

That perceived detachment has drawn criticism. When “Between the World and Me” was published, Dr. West took issue with Ms. Morrison’s comparison of Mr. Coates to Baldwin and expressed as much in a Facebook post, writing that, unlike Mr. Coates, “Baldwin’s painful self-examination led to collective action and a focus on social movements.” In his view, Mr. Coates’s inattention to the Black Lives Matter movement and political activists in “Between the World and Me” “shows a certain distance” from his subject matter.

Mr. Coates counters that he hopes he writes “things that clarify stuff for people that go to those marches, that clarify things that inspire people who go and think about policy. I necessarily need a little bit of distance.”

The National Book award-winning author Jesmyn Ward, who edited “The Fire This Time: A New Generation Speaks About Race” last year, had a similar response: “Writers use the weapons that they have at hand,” she said, “and though I know that there are many writers that do attend protests — I’ve attended protests in my time — perhaps Ta-Nehisi feels that his most powerful weapon and his most appropriate weapon is his voice.”

There has been criticism, also, of the conspicuous absence of women’s experiences in Mr. Coates’s work. In a review of “Between the World and Me,” Buzzfeed’s Shani O. Hilton wrote, “Black womanhood in real life isn’t — as it largely is in ‘Between the World and Me’ — about beating and loving and mourning black men.” She lamented that Mr. Coates’s book, which is specifically about the lives of black males, “is one that many readers will use to define blackness.”

It’s a position that Mr. Coates has seriously considered, but he said that the book focused on black male life because “it was the story I had.” He’d been mulling for years over the death of his friend, Prince Jones, a black man, and the decision to address the book to his son necessarily skewed its perspective. Ultimately, he said, “we just need more books.”

Yet Mr. Coates’s work has resonated deeply. In a telephone conversation, Dr. Painter said that his vision of the United States was congruent with her own. “I think the education that he gave himself — his upbringing and his reading as a student, his reading since that time — all of that has given him a really solid intellectual basis for what he’s talking about.”

Chris Jackson, Mr. Coates’s longtime editor and the publisher of One World, an imprint of Random House, said that Mr. Coates’s curiosity is “matched with a kind of obsessiveness.”

“He would read 1,000 books about the Civil War. He would talk to every scholar,” he said, “He’d read novels and slave narratives. Then, at a certain point, he started to synthesize all this information into some conclusions about, ‘what does this mean?’”

In 2015, just before “Between the World and Me” was published and became a sensation, Mr. Coates and his family moved to Paris. He experienced the frenzy surrounding his book “through a filter,” and the presidential election from a distance. He noted a “clear difference” between how his blackness was perceived in Paris; there, his Americanness was the most conspicuous part of his identity. Mr. Coates laughs off the parallel to Baldwin’s time in Paris, saying that the move was his wife’s idea and “not at all” inspired by the famed intellectual’s experiences.

He returned to the United States last year, ill-prepared for his newfound celebrity. He started to receive invitations to “secret rich people meetings.” He was offered opportunities unrelated to his work as a journalist: to direct music videos (which he turned down) and write comic books and screenplays (which he accepted). His appearances became spectacles, and he found it strange for people to clap for him when he walked into a room.

“I can tell you with a fair degree of certainty that Ta-Nehisi never wanted to be famous,” said Mr. Cobb, who has known Mr. Coates for more than two decades. “And I think it’s been difficult for him, because you want to have people engage with you and engage your work, but it’s also put a huge target on his back.”

During our conversation, Mr. Coates said, “What I have to accept is that I’m a part of it now.” He added: “Nobody thinks ‘He’s from West Baltimore.’ Nobody thinks, ‘He dropped out of school.’ Nobody sees that anymore.”

As to what he plans to do next, Mr. Coates mentions his continued collaboration with Marvel Comics on the Black Panther comic book series, which “satisfies the kid in me” and is “the place where I can go to do something that sort of feels private again.” He was tapped to write a screenplay called “Wrong Answer,” which will be directed by Ryan Coogler and is based on the standardized test cheating scandal that occurred in Atlanta public schools from 2005 to 2012.

He is also working on a novel, due by the end of the year. The project is tightly under wraps, though his editor, Mr. Jackson, described it as “historical” with “elements of the fantastical,” and Mr. Coates said it deals with race.

He has plans to return to Paris as much as he can, but when asked if he would ever stay, he says: “No, I can’t. The war is here. The war is right here.”

While immediately engaging, “A.K.A. Ladies Night,” the first episode of “Jessica Jones,” sometimes leans too hard on its title character’s alienated, hyper-cynical worldview. The pilot’s pseudo-hard-boiled (read: moodily under-lit) style and intricate narrative, with multiple overlapping subplots integrating by episode’s end, is mostly an effective continuation of the Hell’s Kitchen-focused, adult-oriented brand of drama that Marvel Comics and Netflix first tried with “Daredevil” earlier this year.

Here, the show’s title character (Krysten Ritter) works through her issues at Alias Investigations, her detective agency. Jones’s past is largely a mystery to viewers: she has superpowers, but we don’t learn much about her abilities. She also has friends, like Malcolm (Eka Darville), a nosy neighbor who pops over whenever he wants, and Trish Walker (Rachael Taylor), a radio host, but Jones doesn’t seem to like any of them. We eventually learn about Jones’s relationships as she selectively engages them.

Jones’s personal relationships are a credible extension of her character. She bluntly explains to viewers (through voice-over narration) that she is O.K. with the thorniest aspect of her job as a private detective: she profits from other people’s suffering. “New York may be the city that never sleeps — but it sure loves to sleep around,” she says. “Not that I’m complaining: cheaters are good for business. A big part of the job is looking for the worst in people. Turns out I excel at that.” The show’s version of Jones is somewhat more obnoxious, and definitely more desperate, than the version that debuted in Brian Michael Bendis and Michael Gaydos’s sharp “Alias” comic book series. Jones drinks constantly: her office/apartment is littered with bottles, and she always seems to be a few inappropriate comments away from making a hung over fool of herself.

She has a reputation for being a hothead who gets results, as high-powered client Jeryn Hogarth (Carrie-Ann Moss) explains to Jones before reluctantly hiring her to deliver a subpoena to Gregory Spheeris (Juri Henley-Cohn), a strip-club owner who’s being sued by a brain-damaged dancer (and a bunch of high-powered businessmen who want to buy Spheeris’s property). Spheeris’s case isn’t the focus of “A.K.A. Ladies’ Night,” but rather one of a series of encounters whose significance is only explained later on. An entire world is suggested through well-placed details, like omnipresent advertisements for Walker’s “Trish Talks” talk show, or nightmarish, PTSD-esque flashbacks to what appears to be a rape scene.

The show’s overlapping subplots are pieces of a collage that amounts to a simple, but engaging portrait of an independent woman struggling to assert control over her life. That struggle for greater agency is reflected in a predominantly female supporting cast who, like Hogarth, are either more in control of their lives than Jones or in greater need of rescue, like Hope (Erin Moriarty), a missing college student that Jones is hired to find. This community of women provides an immediately accessible context for Jones’s struggles, and ensures that viewers never lose sight of the thematic stakes that ground Jones’s casework.

In contrast, scenes involving sex and violence are often handled without sensitivity or nuance in “A.K.A. Ladies’ Night.” When Jones sleeps with cocky bar-owner Luke Cage (Mike Colter), we immediately know it’s a mistake. She flirts with Cage at his bar, and gets into bed with him right after he dares her to tell him what she really wants. Jones’s answer comes in a sex scene that is edited so frantically that it comically emphasizes the violence of Cage and Jones’s lustful encounter. There’s no romance here, just two people relentlessly going at each other. This is supposed to be the funny half of the scene. Fun and games end when Jones tells Cage “I won’t break” and Cage boastfully replies “Yeah — you will.” That line is a fratboy-ish wink to comic fans who (spoiler alert) know that Cage has superpowers: impenetrable, diamond-hard skin.

The scene slows down noticeably after Cage’s rejoinder. Jones tries to prove she’s in control, but is ultimately humiliated after Cage mounts her from behind. Jones tries to regain control of her body by grabbing at Cage’s arm while he thrusts into her. But eventually, she sees that he was right, and does essentially break, clutching at Cage’s bedsheets and crying out before she and Cage separate from each other.

Watching Jones make a mistake by sleeping with Cage isn’t out of character for her. She’s supposed to be a more-down-to-Earth hero than the other characters in the Marvel universe since she comes to heroics from the perspective of someone who has powers, and has a past as a hero, but doesn’t want to deal with that anymore. Matt Murdock in Netflix’s “Daredevil” is the only other hero in the Marvel movie and TV universe that constantly grapples with doubts about whether or not he should be a superhero. But he unconvincingly wrestles with Catholic guilt and daddy issues while Jones gets punished for her indecisive nature by drinking to excess and being dominated sexually. Jones and Cage’s sex scene is shot and scripted in such a flip way that it suggests that she ought to be ashamed for wanting to experiment with him.

In the first issue of “Alias,” Jones similarly has sex with Cage, and the fact that the sex is obviously implied to be anal sex only serves to up the punishment factor. Jones thinks to herself in this scene that Cage will only remember their tryst as the one time she “let him do whatever he wants.” Bendis and Gaydos break the scene down sequentially so that it focuses on the intense discomfort on Jones’s face. Likewise, in the TV version of this scene, the image of Jones’s hand twisting Cage’s bed sheets and crying out before she hurries out of Cage’s apartment the next morning suggests that she does “break” after all.

This encounter rankles because “Jessica Jones” is an ostensibly progressive show — Marvel’s second project dedicated to a female protagonists after “Agent Carter” — that shows strong women like Hope and Spence trying to stop callous, domineering men like Kilgrave (the former “Doctor Who” star David Tennant) from taking advantage of them.

Read our recap of episode 2.

Three black teenagers in Bedford-Stuyvesant are shot by police officers in a case of mistaken identity. One of them, Kareem Jenkins, survives and learns a secret: Only black people have superpowers. How does the world react as the truth is exposed?

This is Black, a new comic book series about black characters by black creators.

The comic, developed by the writer Kwanza Osajyefo and the designer Tim Smith 3 after a successful Kickstarter campaign last year, was designed to tell a story that reflected their lives and helped fill a void, they said.

While there has been media attention on superheroes who break traditional molds — in recent comic series, Chalice is transgender, Faith is full-figured, the Hulk is Korean-American — the same sense of inclusion has not always been apparent behind the scenes.

Black, published by Black Mask Studios, is distinctive for the diversity of its creative staff as well as the power of its covers, which were illustrated by Khary Randolph and strikingly rendered in a palette of black, white and red.

The cover of the series’ most recent issue, which will be in comic stores on Wednesday, evokes the poster of the film “Platoon,” about the Vietnam War. The cover depicts an urban setting and an image of a young black man taking flight, surrounded by a crowd of people with fists defiantly raised at hovering helicopters. Others have depicted an ominous police presence, a video game where obstacles include a member of the Ku Klux Klan, and a police lineup of four men with placards that identify them as “slave,” “negro,” “colored” and “thug.”

The comic’s covers are also notable for their inclusive credits. Black, whose interior pages are drawn by Jamal Igle, lists those responsible for the inking (Robin Riggs), the gray tones (Derwin Roberson), the lettering (Dave Sharpe) and the editing (Sarah Litt) — contributions not generally included on comic book covers.

Amid the usual fisticuffs of superhero comics, Black makes room for commentary about some neighborhood police officers — “They patrol the places, but don’t know the faces,” says an officer at the scene of the opening incident — and presents characters with a stake in each part of the conflict: Should the powers remain hidden? What to do with people secretly imprisoned by the government? Is a kill-or-be-killed mentality acceptable? If they go public, should their powers be used for profit, self-protection or altruism?

When news about black people having superpowers breaks (spoilers ahead!) — thanks to video taken and transmitted by a cellphone — incidents of racial attacks in the country explode and Kareem decides to become a protector. “The day I got shot changed my life,” he thinks. “Not because I got up, but because of all the people who can’t.”

Critical response to the series has been laudatory: “Black is admirable not only for its contribution to the visibility of the contemporary black experience within the realm of graphic storytelling, but also for providing a fictional form of catharsis from a very real and present fear that pervades the black experience in our present day,” read a review on Paste magazine.

Black “doesn’t represent all blackness, that is impossible,” said Mr. Osajyefo. But the goal was “to reflect what black people look like and where they come from.” The characters emerge from all walks of life and the dialogue is peppered with slang.

The team also set out to draw everyone distinctly. There are no “cookie-cutter faces,” Mr. Smith said. The comic is printed in black and white, which meant that the artists could not rely on shifts in color as a stand-in for diversity.

Growing up on DC and Marvel comics, Mr. Smith noted, meant learning how to draw primarily white characters. “You kind of forget how to draw a face you see everyday in the mirror or your neighborhood,” he said. “Jamal Igle and I drew this book about black people looking like black people.”

The creative team is working on two follow-up series that will complete the Black trilogy, and Mr. Smith said reader reaction helped propel the project. “Going to the conventions and seeing and hearing the enthusiasm,” he said, was a point of pride. “It’s like they’ve seen an old friend for the first time in years.”

The comic-book artist Rob Liefeld often compares himself to famous people. At conventions, when he meets fans dressed as one of his characters, Mr. Liefeld says he feels like Gianni Versace. He likens his relationship with the contemporaries Todd McFarlane and Jim Lee to the intra-band conflicts of the Eagles. To illustrate the criticism he encountered after his meteoric rise in comics in the 1990s, he cites LeBron James and Britney Spears.

“Give me a celebrity, I’ll give you your haters,” Mr. Liefeld said in a recent telephone interview from his home studio in Yorba Linda, Calif. “Some people shine, and some people don’t like when they shine. Ask Barack Obama, he’ll tell you.”

He’s been panned for his drawing skill — articles titled “The 40 Worst Rob Liefeld Drawings,” “A Gallery of Rob Liefeld’s Anatomical Abominations” and “Worst Rob Liefeld Covers” are among his top Google mentions — and is known for contentious exits from Marvel and DC Comics. He even left amid infighting at Image Comics, the independent publisher that he helped found in 1992 with several high-profile illustrators.

In short, Mr. Liefeld has been among the most controversial figures in the comics industry. He is also one of most recognized and best-selling artists. And with the release on Friday, Feb. 12, of the movie adaptation of “Deadpool,” starring Ryan Reynolds as the sarcastic mutant mercenary title character, Mr. Liefeld may soon find an even wider audience.

The youngest child of a Baptist minister and a part-time secretary in Anaheim, Calif., Mr. Liefeld became a sensation when, at 22, he took over the flagging Marvel series “The New Mutants,” a bland junior varsity offshoot of the X-Men. With the comic nearing cancellation, Mr. Liefeld took risks: He plotted story lines packed with twists while introducing hordes of characters, including Deadpool, who made his first appearance — “Introducing the lethal Deadpool” — on the cover of The New Mutants No. 98 in 1991.

Mr. Liefeld’s assistant at the time, the comic book artist Marat Mychaels, remembers him leaving work upset one night. “He came back the next day with a sketch of Deadpool,” Mr. Mychaels said. “He goes, ‘What do you think?’ I said, ‘He looks awesome.’”

In Deadpool’s origin story, he shared a mythos with the X-Men’s Wolverine, Mr. Liefeld’s favorite character. Spider-Man inspired the costume design and red-and-black color scheme — as well as Deadpool’s irreverent sense of humor — and the character became an immediate cult phenomenon. “He was so popular that we had to fast-track his story,” Mr. Liefeld said.

Mr. Liefeld’s ascent continued when his next endeavor, X-Force No. 1 — a retooled New Mutants — sold a staggering five million copies. Starring in a Spike Lee-directed commercial for Levi’s cemented his status as a young face of the comic book industry, which, naturally, upset his peers. “I got the target on my back,” Mr. Liefeld said. “Some of the old guys in the business were like, ‘Oh, how unfortunate that Rob Liefeld is the spokesman for our craft.’ Sour grapes much?”

Mr. Liefeld’s drawing style also rankled traditionalists: He ditched conventional four- and six-panel grids in favor of epic images that pulled inspiration from Japanese anime, manga and MTV. (He admits to watching music videos while working.)

“Every figure that Rob draws has a certain energy to it, a certain excitement,” Robert Kirkman, a creator of The Walking Dead comics, said in a telephone interview. “Every character Rob drew had seven knives and six guns and shoulder pads and pouches and belts and straps and ammunition. It was an aesthetic that as a kid absolutely blew me away. I idolized the guy.”

The superfluous accessories and weaponry were, for better or worse, a Rob Liefeld trademark. “A Liefeld character without shoulder pads is almost naked,” the comics veteran Stan Lee once joked. There were other calling cards: upturned noses, small feet and exaggerated musculature. Captain America’s pecs sometimes ballooned during Mr. Liefeld’s run on the character. Afterward, Peter David, the writer who revitalized The Incredible Hulk in the late 1980s, called Mr. Liefeld “the Ed Wood of comics.”

Mr. Kirkman, a friend of Mr. Liefeld and one of his most vocal defenders, said detractors miss the point. “Everything he draws is interesting, whether it’s accurate or not,” he said. “A lot of people look at the way Rob draws the human body and they say, ‘That’s wrong in my eyes.’ I would say that these people have no joy in their souls. It’s not like Rob doesn’t know what a human body looks like, I think Rob looks at a human body and goes: ‘That’s boring. I can do better.’”

Mr. Liefeld insists the criticism didn’t bother him. “Not one iota.” Then, referring to his father’s death from cancer in 1999, he added that he didn’t care if people ridiculed his artwork. “I’ve had really hard struggles in my life.”

He is prickly, though, about sharing creator credit on Deadpool with Fabian Nicieza, who wrote the script for the character’s first appearance, based on Mr. Liefeld’s story. As plotter, penciler and inker of The New Mutants at the time of Deadpool’s inception, Mr. Liefeld said he did “all the heavy lifting.”

“If a janitor scripted New Mutants 98, he’d be the co-creator — that’s how it works, buddy,” Mr. Liefeld said. “Deadpool does not exist in any way, shape or form without me.”

Mr. Liefeld added: “I wrote the stories. Like Jim Lee and others, I worked with a scripter who helped facilitate. I chose Fabian, and he got the benefit of the Rob Liefeld lottery ticket. Those are good coattails to ride.” Neither Mr. Nicieza nor his manager could be reached for comment.

Mr. Liefeld said he hoped that more of his creations, like Cable, a dour soldier from the future, and his X-Force lieutenant, Domino, follow Deadpool to the big screen. At the moment, though, he’s working on the graphic novel “Deadpool: Bad Blood,” set for release this summer.

“I got the color pages in on it this morning and was just blown away,” Mr. Liefeld said. “It inspired me to draw more pages. I love my craft. I may have missed it on a drawing or two. But I got more right than I got wrong.”

Lego and Warner Bros. Entertainment seem to be perfect partners: One is a multinational toy company in search of expansion, and the other is a global entertainment giant looking for more content.

But as both ramp up promotion for the September release of their third film together, “The Lego Ninjago Movie,” some are wondering whether the cinematic landscape is cluttered with too many Lego bricks.

“The Lego Movie” was a surprise smash in 2014, costing about $60 million to make and collecting $469.2 million worldwide. A sequel to that film is planned for 2019. But a related follow-up to the original, “The Lego Batman Movie,” released in February, took in only $311 million, in part because girls were not as interested. And now, a short seven months later, comes “Ninjago.”

The stakes are high for Warner Bros. Few films on its schedule are more important than “The Lego Ninjago Movie,” which it sees as part of a continuing “cinematic universe” and a pillar for the studio, with additional original installments and sequels exploring different genres planned for the next decade and beyond.

But Ninjago is more than just a movie for Lego. The brand was introduced in 2011 with a martial-arts themed line of toys and a TV series. Lego anticipated a short life span, but consumer response was stronger than expected, so Lego brought it back in 2014 with new building sets and new seasons of the TV series.

“There is an affinity for the property,” said Michael McNally, the senior director of brand relations for Lego.

Still, some industry watchers say the ambitious movie slate, combined with an equally elaborate merchandising push, could end up hurting.

Jim Silver, the chief executive and editor in chief of TTPM, a toy industry website, said the overall market was oversaturated with movie-related toys this year, and children were not making an emotional attachment to the brands and the characters.

“There is less attention span on their property,” Mr. Silver said. “Kids are bouncing from one to another.”

Underscoring the importance of “The Lego Ninjago Movie,” Warner Bros. and Lego headed to Comic-Con International, the annual comic book convention in San Diego, over the weekend to mount a full-court press to woo die-hard fans.

Each morning, Warner Bros. hosted a yogalike workout (“for the ninja in everyone”) on a lawn that it billed as “ninjoga.” The studio also flew in several actors who voiced characters in the film — Dave Franco, Michael Peña, Kumail Nanjiani and Olivia Munn — for a presentation that included the unveiling of a new trailer set to Taylor Swift’s “Bad Blood.”

“The key for us is to reach both adults and kids,” Dan Lin, the producer behind the “Lego” movie series, said at the presentation. “How do we reach the broadest audience possible to introduce ‘Ninjago?’”

For its part, Lego planned building activities, autograph signings and the unveiling of life-size Lego models at its enormous booth on the convention center floor. And in a new strategy, Lego also introduced 14 movie-themed building sets for sale at the show, a month before they will appear at mass-market retail stores in August.

It is common for toy companies to promote their hottest lines at Comic-Con with exclusive offerings, which fans line up for hours just for a chance to buy. For instance, Hasbro offered two versions of Optimus Prime from its Transformers line, as well as deluxe versions of Marvel Comics’ Daredevil and Luke Skywalker and his landspeeder. Mattel promoted the coming “Justice League” movie with a limited-edition Cyborg action figure and a Hot Wheels Batmobile, and it offered a two-pack featuring Wonder Woman and Cheetah from its DC Super Hero Girls line.

“We lean into our consumer insights” to give the fans what they want, said Samantha Lomow, senior vice president of Hasbro brands. “The economic model around these items is less about the financial than they are about the fan base.”

Lego has its own exclusive building sets at the convention as well, but the introduction of a retail line at Comic-Con is a first for the company.

“The timing works really well,” said Mr. McNally, creating a slow build for the movie that “stands out and drives buzz.”

All the attention at Comic-Con will help build awareness among influencers and the media, Mr. Silver of TTPM said. “Lego is keeping the brick front and center,” he said.

Still, the questions surrounding the movie percolated throughout the Warner Bros. presentation. Justin Theroux, who voices a character in the movie, said that boys 10 and under were “obsessed” with the “Ninjago” line, in part because of the Cartoon Network series “Lego Ninjago: Masters of Spinjitzu.” “If you are over that age,” Mr. Theroux said, “you don’t know it exists.”

Mr. McNally played down concerns about having back-to-back Lego movies, saying “The Lego Ninjago Movie” stood apart from its predecessor and was a good opportunity to reach a wider audience.

“That theatrical experience is then shared through a play experience,” he said, and that could result in consumers buying new sets or even playing with old ones.

“For us, the portfolio can benefit from the movie event,” Mr. McNally said, “even if the action the audience takes is to pull out the bricks they have and continue building.”

LOS ANGELES — Patty Jenkins and “Wonder Woman” just broke Hollywood’s superhero glass ceiling.

“Wonder Woman,” starring Gal Gadot, took in about $100.5 million at North American theaters over the weekend, according to comScore. The turnout — in a surprise, almost equally split between women and men — was one of the best ever for a nonsequel superhero film.

During the past four years, as Warner Bros. has tried to follow Marvel Entertainment in creating an interconnected constellation of critically acclaimed superhero blockbusters, effort after effort involving male characters and male directors has fallen short. Superman? Nope. Batman and Superman in one film? Even worse.

So the pressure on the lasso-wielding “Wonder Woman,” directed by Ms. Jenkins and released on Friday, was astronomical. That $150 million film also came loaded with gender politics — the superhero genre has long been moviedom’s biggest boys’ club, on both sides of the camera — and a misfire could lead to further exclusion: Leave the superheroics to the dudes.

Instead, she nailed it. The box office result was on par with “Iron Man,” the 2008 film that kick-started Marvel’s lineup, and beat the arrivals of Captain America, Thor and Doctor Strange.

“Holy moly,” Ms. Jenkins wrote on Twitter early Sunday. “Amazing.”

Ms. Jenkins, whose only previous film was the celebrated but micro-budgeted 2003 indie “Monster,” was instantly catapulted to the A-list by the “Wonder Woman” results. Ditto Ms. Gadot, who Hollywood believes has emerged as an Angelina Jolie for a new generation. But the “Wonder Woman” success also contributes to an unmistakable moment for women in Hollywood, which has been under attack for pervasive sexism.

Last month, Sofia Coppola became only the second woman in the long history of the Cannes Film Festival to win best director. Kathryn Bigelow, the only woman to have won an Oscar for directing, has one of the most hotly anticipated films of the summer in “Detroit,” a thriller about a 1967 police raid that is set for release on Aug. 4. “Detroit” is being released by Megan Ellison’s fast-growing Annapurna Pictures.

Women will be more front and center on movie screens this summer than any time in recent memory. “The Mummy,” starring Sofia Boutella in the title role, opens on Friday. “Rough Night” and “Girls Trip,” comedies with ensemble female casts, arrive after that. Charlize Theron stars in “Atomic Blonde,” an aggressive action film scheduled for July 28.

Sony and Marvel have both announced major superhero films about female characters (Silver Sable, Black Cat) that are directed or co-directed by women.

The arrival of “Wonder Woman” was accompanied by flashes of ongoing sexism. The Alamo Drafthouse theater chain angered some men and drew a smattering of formal discrimination complaints when it scheduled a series of “no guys allowed” screenings. “Apologies, gentlemen, but we’re embracing our girl power,” Alamo’s announcement read. The screenings sold out; proceeds were to go to Planned Parenthood.

The success of “Wonder Woman” will probably encourage studios to do more to equalize the playing field. For years, female superheroes were held back by the argument — a ridiculous one in the eyes of most critics — that male ticket buyers would stay home if a woman led the action; the failures of “Catwoman” in 2004 and “Elektra” in 2005 were used as proof.

“You see certain properties strike a cultural nerve — hit the zeitgeist — and ‘Wonder Woman’ truly serves as a prime example,” Jeff Goldstein, Warner’s president of domestic distribution, said by phone on Sunday. “Patty Jenkins accomplished something spectacular.”

Mr. Goldstein noted that exit polls showed that turnout for “Wonder Woman” was 52 percent female and 48 percent male.

“Wonder Woman,” backed by a thundering worldwide marketing campaign estimated to cost at least $150 million, sold an additional $122.5 million in tickets overseas.

Crucially, “Wonder Woman” was a runaway hit with critics, receiving a 93 percent positive score on Rotten Tomatoes, the review aggregation site. To compare, “Man of Steel,” directed by Zack Snyder, managed reviews that were only 55 percent positive in 2013; Mr. Snyder’s “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” scored a dismal 27 percent positive last year.

Alarmed by the bad reviews, Warner shook up its DC Comics-based movie operation last year, giving more oversight to a pair of executives, Jon Berg and Geoff Johns, with deep ties to the comics source material.

Wonder Woman, with her bullet-deflecting bracelets and acrobatic combat skills, occupies a spot on the Mount Rushmore of superheroes. But Warner and its DC Entertainment division have struggled for more than a decade to figure out how to best bring her to the big screen, a priority for the studio as it seeks to expand its consumer products business and compete with its rival Marvel, owned by Disney, at the box office.

The character had a camp association for many people, especially those who did not grow up on comic books but instead learned about Wonder Woman through the “Super Friends” cartoon — where she flew an invisible jet — and the 1970s-era television series. Heroes are usually only as good as their nemeses, and the Wonder Woman comics did not provide a great selection; her primary archenemy was a deranged debutante who could transform herself into a cheetah.

Warner had to face down several moments where bad publicity could have hurt the film. Last year the studio refuted anonymous claims that “Wonder Woman” was a creative mess. Last month, Warner had to douse an online brush fire that broke out over a marketing misstep; a tie-in sponsorship had been arranged with Think Thin protein bars, seeming to indicate that the studio was suggesting that the character needed to diet.

But there was nothing but unbridled exultation — and relief — at Warner as data arrived showing that “Wonder Woman” was drawing bigger crowds than expected. Analysts had thought the film would arrive to ticket sales in the $80 million range.

“We’re all pretty giddy,” Mr. Goldstein said.

Jokes and bullets are tossed like confetti in “Deadpool,” a feverishly eager-to-please comic-book movie about a supervillain who suits up like a superhero. In uniform, the title character, an ordinary mercenary turned freakishly powerful mercenary, may look a little like Spider-Man, at least to the comic-book agnostic. But Deadpool is far more psychotic than heroic, which he cheerfully establishes by painting the screen red with one kill after another. He points, shoots, jokes (repeat), often while cracking wise right into the camera.

The movie is the latest entry in the incessantly expanding comic book movie universe, which is crowded with beautiful physical specimens battling hordes of bad guys. The specimen in this case is Ryan Reynolds, whose performance feels like career rehab (or penance) for “Green Lantern,” the 2011 dud he fronted for DC Comics. Here, he plays Wade Wilson, a breezily amoral hired gun who, after some story filler, turns into Deadpool, an antihero who likes to address the camera between kills. Breaking the fourth wall is old stuff, especially in comedy and, like pokes in the ribs and stage winks, can be a way filmmakers signal to the audience that we’re all in this together.

The filmmakers do a lot of winking and rib poking; they sell “Deadpool” so hard that you might wonder if the studio has started to pay on commission. The sales pitch starts with the opening credits, which consist of a series of genre clichés — “hot chick,” “British villain” and “comic relief” — instead of the usual headliner cast and crew names. It’s one of the best sequences in the movie, partly because it’s a bit complicated. At that early point, the audience can pretend (wink, wink) that it doesn’t know whether “Deadpool” is going to deliver on each of those clichés, from the requisite babe (Morena Baccarin, appealing and age appropriate) to the regulation British baddie (Ed Skrein). But what else would an entertainment juggernaut deliver in a movie like this? Surprises?

The opening credits are worth lingering over because they’re enjoyable and because they’re a clever pre-emptive strike. By immediately announcing the clichés that they will soon deploy, the filmmakers at once flatter and reassure the audience even as they lower any expectations that what follows will be new or different. You can almost hear the studio suits whispering in your ear: “Come on, we all know that these kinds of movies rely on silly stereotypes — that’s part of the fun!” And seriously who doesn’t like fun? Yet to laugh (as I did) at these self-mocking credits is to give in to a somewhat compromised pleasure. Because, among other things, you are also laughing at your willingness to settle for the same old, same old, which suggests that the joke is on you.

It is or it isn’t. Much depends on whether you’re down with the comic-book film imperative no matter what transpires on-screen; whether you find Deadpool’s Jim Carrey-style logorrhea hilarious or tedious; whether you think watching people (oops, fictional characters) get roughed up, impaled, shot, tortured and liquidated in scene after scene for laughs is just another night at the movies. It also depends on whether you don’t mind that “Deadpool” soon makes good on its opening credits. Because, as promised, the filmmakers trot out the usual character types (the hot chick, the comic relief, etc.), along with the familiar beats, even as they briefly fold in some nicely played home-front melodrama which, for a few scenes, makes “Deadpool” genuinely more ambitious than most works of this kind.

These sections push the story forward, laying the foundation for the existential divide that defines every superhero, even a putative roguish outlier like Deadpool. And while the tears salting these scenes may be cynical given the movie’s embrace of a what-me-worry nihilism, they offer a necessary break from the strained patter and violence. They also show that the director, Tim Miller, and Mr. Reynolds can do more than hit the same bombastic notes over and over again. It’s no surprise that the teams hired to bring a property like “Deadpool” to the screen know how to keep the machine oiled and humming; it’s the ones who somehow manage to temporarily stick a wrench in the works, adding something human — a feeling instead of another quip — who are worth your attention.

“Deadpool” is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Bangs, booms and splatter. Running time: 1 hour 48 minutes. 