WASHINGTON — Relationships have always been President Trump’s currency and comfort, helping him talk his way into real estate deals over three decades in New York. Those who know him best say that his outer confidence has always belied an inner uncertainty, and that he needs to test ideas with a wide range of people.

As Mr. Trump’s White House advisers jostle for position, the president has turned to another group of advisers — from family, real estate, media, finance and politics, and all outside the White House gates — many of whom he consults at least once a week.

The media mogul Rupert Murdoch is on the phone every week, encouraging Mr. Trump when he’s low and arguing that he focus on the economy rather than detouring to other issues. The developer Richard LeFrak is a soothing voice who listens to Mr. Trump’s complaints that cost estimates for the border wall with Mexico are too high. Sean Hannity tells the president that keeping promises on core Republican issues is crucial.

Mr. Trump’s West Wing aides, like President Bill Clinton’s staff two decades before, say they sometimes cringe at the input from people they can’t control, with consequences they can’t predict. Knowing these advisers — who are mostly white, male and older — is a key to figuring out the words coming from Mr. Trump’s mouth and his Twitter feed.

Here, based on interviews with more than a dozen friends, top aides and advisers inside and outside the White House, are 20 of Mr. Trump’s outside touchstones.

Rupert Murdoch

Mr. Trump’s relationships depend on two crucial measures: personal success and loyalty to him. Mr. Murdoch excels in both categories. His New York Post vaulted Mr. Trump from local housing developer to gossip-page royalty, and his Fox News Channel was pro-Trump in the 2016 general election.

The two share preferences for transactional tabloid journalism and never giving in to critics. (Mr. Trump said the fallen Fox star Bill O’Reilly should not have settled sexual harassment complaints.) The president’s relationship with Mr. Murdoch is deeper and more enduring than most in his life, and the two commiserate and plot strategy in their phone calls, according to people close to both.

Mr. Murdoch even called the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer, to buck him up after Mr. Spicer was savaged for a remark about Adolf Hitler.

Sean Hannity

Presidents always deploy surrogates to appear on television to spout their talking points, but Mr. Trump has expanded on that by developing relationships with sympathetic media figures like Mr. Hannity who also serve as advisers. Mr. Hannity, the Fox News host, defends Mr. Trump’s most controversial behavior in public, but privately, according to people close to Mr. Trump, he urges the president not to get distracted, and advises him to focus on keeping pledges like repealing the Affordable Care Act.

Chris Ruddy

The chief executive of Newsmax Media is a longtime Mar-a-Lago member and was a Trump cheerleader among conservative media well before the website Breitbart joined the parade. He employs writers and editors who tracked Mr. Trump’s career when they were at The New York Post. He recently visited the Oval Office, and he and Mr. Trump kibitz in Florida and by phone.

Sheri A. Dillon

Ms. Dillon seemed out of place when she spoke at a too-large lectern in the lobby of Trump Tower on Jan. 11, describing the steps Mr. Trump planned to take to separate himself from his business. But Ms. Dillon, a tax lawyer who worked out a highly criticized plan for Mr. Trump to retain ownership of his company but step back from running it, has repeatedly counseled the president about the business and made at least one White House visit. (Michael Cohen, a veteran Trump aide, has been serving as his personal lawyer.)

Corey Lewandowski

Despite his “you’re fired” slogan, the president dislikes dismissing people. Mr. Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s hot-tempered first campaign manager, was fired in June but never really went away. A New England-bred operative whose working-class roots and clenched-teeth loyalty earned him Mr. Trump’s trust, he continued to be in frequent phone contact with Mr. Trump until the election and beyond. Friends of Mr. Lewandowski say that he can see the windows of the White House residence from his lobbying office on Pennsylvania Avenue, and that the view is even better during his visits to the West Wing, including when the New England Patriots were there this past week.

Newt Gingrich

The former House speaker talks more with Mr. Trump’s top advisers than he does with the president, but his presence permeates the administration. Mr. Gingrich’s former spokesman is at the State Department, and two former advisers work in the West Wing. Mr. Gingrich has relentlessly promoted Mr. Trump’s policy adviser, Stephen Miller, as the West Wing conservative ballast as the chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, has been under fire.

Richard LeFrak

Their fathers were developers together in New York, and the two men have been friends for decades. Mr. LeFrak is a Mar-a-Lago member, and he agreed to be part of an infrastructure effort that Mr. Trump hopes to put forward. Mr. Trump has turned to him to vent frustrations about the slow pace of bureaucracy.

Thomas Barrack Jr.

Mr. Trump divides the people around him into broad categories: family, paid staff and wealthy men like Mr. Barrack whom he considers peers. A sunny and loyal near-billionaire who has socialized with the president for years, Mr. Barrack is less a strategic adviser than a trusted moneyman, fixer and sounding board who has often punctuated emails to Mr. Trump with exhortations like “YOU ROCK!” He has urged Mr. Trump to avoid needless, distracting fights.

Under Mr. Barrack’s leadership, Mr. Trump’s inaugural committee raised a record $106.7 million, much of it from big corporations, banks and Republican megadonors like the Las Vegas billionaire Sheldon Adelson. Mr. Barrack also helped usher Paul Manafort, the international political operative now under scrutiny for his ties to Russia, into the Trump fold last year. The velvet-voiced Mr. Barrack does not seek out attention for himself, one of the most important and elusive qualities by which the president judges people.

Stephen Schwarzman

The chairman and chief executive of the Blackstone Group, Mr. Schwarzman is the head of Mr. Trump’s economic advisory council. He and the president don’t speak daily, West Wing aides said, but do talk frequently. Mr. Schwarzman has counseled him on a number of topics, including advising him to leave in place President Barack Obama’s executive order shielding young undocumented immigrants, known as “Dreamers,” from deportation.

Steve Roth

A good way to get on Mr. Trump’s side is to do a deal with him, particularly if it means rescuing him from his own financial crisis. That’s what Mr. Roth, a real estate tycoon, did a decade ago when he bought out Mr. Trump’s share in a West Side real estate deal that went sour. Mr. Roth, head of Vornado Realty Trust and a longtime Democratic donor, also helped Mr. Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, when he injected $80 million into 666 Fifth Avenue, a Kushner family property in danger of defaulting on $1.1 billion in loans. Mr. Trump speaks with Mr. Roth frequently, and is leaning on him to help develop a trillion-dollar infrastructure package expected this year.

Phil Ruffin

Mr. Trump has 20-odd business partners, but none is closer to him than Mr. Ruffin, 82, a Texas billionaire who has lent his ear and private jet. The president was best man at the 2008 wedding of Mr. Ruffin to his third wife, a 26-year-old model and former Miss Ukraine. Mr. Ruffin has a knack for showing up when Mr. Trump needs him most and remains a die-hard defender. “This stuff about him having financial investments all over Russia — that’s just pure crap,” Mr. Ruffin told Forbes. “I went to Russia with him. We took my airplane. We were having lunch with one of the oligarchs there. No business was discussed.”

Carl Icahn

Rounding out Mr. Trump’s roster of wealthy octogenarians is this 81-year-old corporate raider and real estate mogul, who occupies perhaps the most respected perch in the president’s circle of businessmen buddies. The affection is longstanding: The Queens-bred Mr. Icahn has known Mr. Trump and his family for decades. It’s also numerical: Mr. Icahn is worth an estimated $16 billion, a major plus in the eyes of a president who keeps score. Mr. Icahn serves as a free-roving economic counselor and the head of Mr. Trump’s effort to reduce government regulations on business.

Roger J. Stone Jr.

Few alliances in politics are as complicated as the 40-year relationship between the Nixon-tattooed Mr. Stone and Mr. Trump. Mr. Stone won’t say how frequently they speak these days, but he shares the president’s tear-down-the-system impulses and is ubiquitous on cable news, radio and the website InfoWars defending Mr. Trump.

Ike Perlmutter

Mr. Perlmutter, the chief executive of Marvel Comics, who is so reclusive that there are few public photographs of him, has been informally advising Mr. Trump on veterans issues. The two men are old friends, and Mr. Perlmutter has been a presence at Mar-a-Lago.

Robert Kraft

The owner of the New England Patriots is a Democrat, but his loyalty to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kraft once said, dates partly to the president’s thoughtfulness when Mr. Kraft’s wife died. Mr. Trump loved talking about the Patriots during the campaign, and Mr. Kraft has been a Mar-a-Lago presence since the transition.

Melania Trump

Mrs. Trump is uninterested in the limelight, but she has remained a powerful adviser by telephone from New York. Among her roles: giving Mr. Trump feedback on media coverage, counseling him on staff choices and urging him, repeatedly, to tone down his Twitter feed. Lately, he has listened closely, and has a more disciplined Twitter finger.

Chris Christie

Mr. Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and palace gatekeeper, has shown a capacity to hobble his rivals, but few have been finished off. The most durable has been Mr. Christie, whose transition planning, several West Wing aides now concede, should not have been discarded. He has been a frequent Oval Office visitor and has worked with the White House on the opioid addiction crisis.

Paul D. Ryan

Mr. Trump and the clean-cut and wonky Wisconsinite aren’t exactly best friends forever. But their relationship is closer than in the bad old days of the 2016 campaign when Mr. Ryan delayed a hold-my-nose endorsement of Mr. Trump, whose morality he had long questioned. But as the president’s agenda passes through the razor-blade gantlet of the House, where Mr. Ryan faces the constant threat of opposition and overthrow, the two men have become foxhole buddies.

Donald Trump Jr. and Eric Trump

The two sons and the president insist they no longer discuss company business. But the family is close, and Mr. Trump still speaks to his sons frequently, inquiring about their lives and searching for gut-checks on his own.

Like the personalities inside the mind of David Haller, the superhero and horror genres coexist in a way that’s difficult to untangle. Superman, the ur-superhero invented by the Jewish-American creative team of Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster, has often been linked by scholars (though never by Siegel and Shuster themselves) to the myth of the golem. (“Frankenstein” author Mary Shelley is said to have been inspired by golem as well, although she never said so herself.) The mild-mannered scientist Bruce Banner turns into a raging behemoth as the Incredible Hulk, an echo of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Some heroes have powers that are outright demonic in nature, from Etrigan the Demon to the flaming-skull cyclist, Ghost Rider. “Blade,” the 1998 film about a vampiric hunter of the undead was the key precursor to the modern era of superheroic pop-culture hegemony.

And we haven’t even begun counting the villains, a rogues’ gallery of grotesques who evoke virtually every monster and murderer from myths and movies alike. None, of course, is more prominent than the Joker, Batman’s arch-nemesis, whose permanent grin was drawn directly from the expressionist silent horror film “The Man Who Laughs.”

In other words, the swashbuckling and world-saving are nice and all, but sometimes a good superhero story just wants to scare the pants off you.

In that light — or in that darkness, perhaps — this week’s episode of “Legion” is a qualified success. The chapter chronicles David’s return from the limbo of the astral plane and the subsequent “rescue” (scare quotes to be explained) of his sister, Amy, from sinister government forces. All the while, the devil with the yellow eyes is pulling David’s strings. As a terrified and dying victim screams, “It wears a human face!”

The dread and terror that suffuse the episode take two forms. The first, owed largely to the deft and unnerving acting by Dan Stevens, is the dawning realization that David has turned from schizophrenic to sadist, even as his powers have increased from impressive to godlike. The second is a growing onslaught by the devil’s many manifestations, culminating in its full-on stalking of and assault on David’s girlfriend, Syd, in the placid white room he created as their safe space.

The first approach proves more effective than the second. As these recaps have frequently argued, Stevens has a face, a frame and a charisma that are better suited for boldness — and even badness — than for timidity. Naturally, he makes the most of David’s transition to suave seducer and cocky killer. The bedroom “by a beach” that he mentally constructs in the astral plane so that he and Syd can finally touch looks like something out of an air freshener commercial or a music video for a sexy ’90s R&B slow-jam — a mocking parody of his and Syd’s romantic ambitions, symbolized by the insects crawling all over the dish of strawberries delivered by his mind’s version of room service. “They say the brain is the largest erogenous zone,” he coos as they clinch.

This subtle mockery of human kindness grows markedly less subtle by the minute. At the encouragement of his alternate personalities, David breaks his promise to Syd and attacks Division 3, his sister’s captors. When his teammates arrive in the aftermath, the charnel-house hellscape they discover recalls the hyperviolent dioramas of the Young British Artist provocateurs Jake and Dinos Chapman. Soldiers have been blown apart, dismembered, partially buried and immured, or simply vaporized. Security camera footage reveals David grinning and dancing his way through the carnage; if the audio feed worked you’d expect him to be gleefully crooning “Singin’ in the Rain,” like Malcolm McDowell’s character in “A Clockwork Orange.”

But he’s truly at his worst when he and his sister return to their childhood home, where she quickly realizes something is very, very wrong with her baby brother. “I wanna know your secret,” he suddenly says, smirking. “I can smell it, see.” (Turns out he was adopted; in the Marvel comics by Chris Claremont and Bill Sienkiewicz, his birth father is the powerful telepath and founder of the X-Men, Professor Charles Xavier.) As Amy faces frightening glimpses of his alternate personalities, he switches over to bathetic pleading, reminiscent of Jack Nicholson in “The Shining”: “Please. My whole life is a lie. I just need to know … who am I?” The insincerity is skin-crawling; David may be a lot of things, but insincere is not one of them, so this is our surest sign yet that someone, or something, else is in control.

And in this episode, we learn exactly who or what that is. “The devil with the yellow eyes,” who haunts David’s memories and threatens those who probe them, is a disembodied mutant consciousness that attached itself to the powerful psychic when he was just a baby. It is capable of taking many shapes, including David’s loudmouth psych-ward pal, Lenny (Aubrey Plaza, whose wide-eyed intensity is too much of a constant for her to succeed as the monster as she’s supposed to here); her male counterpart, Benny; and David’s imaginary childhood dog, King. It can also erase David’s memories of its presence outright.

Its favorite form, however, is the obese, grinning, yellow-skinned demon we’ve seen with increasing frequency as the season has progressed. In this episode, camera glitches and audio distortion mark his presence — visual and sonic signatures he shares with Eric Knudsen’s internet-horror phenomenon Slender Man. But in many ways he’s Slender Man’s Bizarro version: fat instead of stick-thin, leering instead of faceless, talkative instead of mute, dressed in a tattered suit instead of a weirdly dapper one, slowly strolling around in full view instead of traveling via blink-and-you’ll-miss-it appearances and disappearances.

But the devil is in the details, and the details of the devil are drab. It’s true that individual moments involving the creature manage to frighten: its infestation of David’s white room as a presence that makes the bathroom glow red, or sudden shots of its dog incarnation that make it seem as monstrous as Cujo, or the heat-vision security footage that shows the glowing and glowering thing where David himself should be. But the beast itself is less uncanny than merely … unpleasant. You wouldn’t want to bump into him in a dark alley — or, as Syd is, to be stalked around a bedroom while your psychic boyfriend screams in powerless rage. The more we actually see him, though, the less menacing he becomes. In full view of the camera, with his beady-eyed smile and his canary-yellow prosthetic fat rolls, he looks like a Tim Burton Humpty-Dumpty or a “Star Wars” cantina alien, not a mind-melting presence of unspeakable evil.

He’s a fundamental miscalculation on the part of the filmmakers, akin to the overbaked Radiohead music cue that accompanies David’s friends when they uncover the slaughter at Division 3, or the casting of a wry comic talent like Plaza as an uninspired manic-pixie-nightmare-girl. And yet the episode’s tense climactic set piece is innovative and deftly paced: a wordless infiltration of David’s house by the rescue team, which culminates in an assassination attempt by the merciless mutant-hunter, the Eye, and a reality shift through David’s white room into an asylum where he and his fellow mutants find themselves under the tender mercies of “Doctor” Lenny.

It’s not just superheroes and horror that coexist on the show and among David’s multiple personalities: The good show and the shaky one share a head space as well — ours. I’m more anxious to see who wins that fight than the one between the devil and David Haller.

Even though he’s about to get the full Hollywood C.G.I. treatment, Doctor Strange has never been a superstar of the Marvel Universe — more like an endearing benchwarmer with a knuckleball personality and a wacky Cloak of Levitation.

He arrived unheralded in 1963 in Strange Tales No. 110 as a back-of-the-book feature to the Human Torch. He was a slight, five-page afterthought dreamed up by Stan Lee and Steve Ditko, who are better known for creating the Amazing Spider-Man.

Conceived at first in the cornball tradition of comics necromancers like Mandrake the Magician and Mr. Mystic, Doctor Strange gradually staked out a singular position as a master of the mystic arts and, eventually, Sorcerer Supreme. And unlike most Marvel heroes, who rely on their fists, he uses magic to defend Earth from malign, otherworldly threats like the match-headed Dread Dormammu and the nefarious Nightmare. He finally got his own comic book in 1968, but it was canceled the next year. Not even Doctor Strange’s mighty enchantments could overcome poor sales, a sad hallmark of his up-and-down comic-book career.

But now potential vindication is near. “Doctor Strange” opens Friday, Nov. 4, with Benedict Cumberbatch starring. Based on my many decades of comic-book study, here are 10 things you should know before you see the movie. Magic, after all, can be exhilarating but befuddling.

1. HE’S A REAL DOCTOR

Before draping his cape and waggling his fingers, Stephen Strange was a talented yet arrogant surgeon, driven by ego and ambition. So he’s your man, whether you’ve got a bad ticker or, as Jason Aaron wrote in the recent graphic novel “The Way of the Weird,” “your daughter started cursing in Latin and walking like a spider.”

2. HE’S AN ALLITERATION ADDICT

This is really the writer Stan Lee’s fault, but Strange can’t speak without racking up frequent-alliteration points. His many munificent mutterings include: the Shadowy Shades of the Seraphim, the Seven Rings of Raggadorr and — who can forget? — the Hoary Hosts of Hoggoth.

3. HE’S GROOVY, MAN!

In the 1960s and early ’70s, he did have a certain counterculture cachet. In T. Rex’s “Mambo Sun,” Marc Bolan sang, “On a mountain range, I’m Doctor Strange for you.” A 1965 psychedelic concert in San Francisco was called “A Tribute to Dr. Strange,”  and he showed up on the cover of the Pink Floyd album “A Saucerful of Secrets” (1968).

4. HE’S A MERRY PRANKSTER, TOO

Speaking of the counterculture, the doc also appeared in “The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test,” Tom Wolfe’s nonfiction chronicle of the cross-country trip taken by the novelist Ken Kesey and his LSD-lit Merry Pranksters. Mr. Wolfe wrote of Kesey reading comic books, “absorbed in the plunging purple Steve Ditko shadows of Dr. Strange.” The writer Roy Thomas later returned the favor, giving Mr. Wolfe a walk-on in Doctor Strange No. 180 in 1969.

5. HE LIVES IN THE VILLAGE (OF COURSE)

Stephen Strange’s awe-inspiring Sanctum Sanctorum sits in Greenwich Village at 177A Bleecker. Presumably it’s not too far from his preferred watering hole, the wizards-only Bar With No Doors.

6. HE’S A MAGICAL LADIES MAN

Sure, he routinely saves the world — if not the universe — but Strange is also something of a cad and a hound. He’s been known to make out with any entity that’s vaguely female in form, including insectlike soul-eaters. Really, he’s more likely to be killed by a spurned girlfriend than by one of his archenemies.

7.  HE’S NO ALI

He prefers to hurl spells, incantations and mystic bolts, but Doctor Strange will engage in physical combat if he has to. He knows martial arts, but his weapon of choice (in this fleshly plane of existence) is a baseball bat wrapped in enchanted barbed wire.

8. HE KNOWS SUPERNATURAL BONDAGE

One disturbing element during Strange’s Ditko years (1963-66) was how often Clea, the doctor’s love interest, was drawn bound and in poses of submission. But the Ditko biographer Blake Bell explained in “Strange and Stranger: The World of Steve Ditko,” that in the years he worked on the character, Mr. Ditko shared a studio at the corner of Eighth Avenue and 43rd Street in Manhattan with Eric Stanton, a fetish artist. Stanton was best known for his bondage work on comic strips like “Sweeter Gwendolyn” and “Confidential TV.” Maybe something stuck with Mr. Ditko.

9. HIS MENTOR WAS NOT TILDA SWINTON

In the coming movie, Doctor Strange’s mentor, the Ancient One, is played by a beguiling if tough Tilda Swinton. In the comics, Ancient is male, an archaic Asian relic who owns an I’ve-seen-it-all face that looks like a fossilized prune. Ms. Swinton’s version is Celtic, and the change was one of a number of developments that led to renewed controversy over Hollywood’s whitewashing of Asian characters.

10. HIS DEFINING ARTIST WAS STEVE DITKO

Though he stopped drawing the character in 1966, Steve Ditko is still the definitive Doctor Strange artist. For four years Mr. Ditko imagined Strange’s netherworlds, Dalí-esque dimensions and neuron-like phantasmagorias. (It’s hard to believe upon reading Doctor Strange that Mr. Ditko also once drew the spinach-green bulk of the Incredible Hulk.) As the comics historian Dean Mullaney has written of Ditko, “He took the ethereal and made it tangible.” And two books have just been published that provide full access to Mr. Ditko’s dreamscapes. “Ditko Unleashed” (IDW) is the generously illustrated catalog for a Ditko retrospective on display through Jan. 8 at the Casal Solleric museum in Mallorca, Spain, while the “Doctor Strange Omnibus” (Marvel) reprints his full, epic run on the character. As the Marvel artist John Romita Sr., who succeeded Mr. Ditko on Spider-Man, told Mr. Bell, “No one could do Doctor Strange like him.”

On Wednesday, readers of Superman will be introduced to two men new to DC Comics: Ulysses, a strange visitor from another dimension; and the illustrator John Romita Jr., a decades-long veteran of Marvel Comics, making his DC debut.

For comics fans, Mr. Romita’s change to DC from Marvel is the equivalent of Derek Jeter leaving the Yankees to play for the Mets.

Mr. Romita used a different metaphor: “DC and Marvel are like Coke and Pepsi,” he said, explaining that his decision to move was about trying new things. “Staying at Marvel, I would’ve been doing the same stuff, character wise.”

When the move to DC was announced in February, fan reaction online was mixed. On the comics news website newsarama.com, comments ranged from the farther he “gets from Marvel the better” to “I wish he could draw every comic ever made.” Mr. Romita, whose first published story for Marvel was in 1977 and featured Spider-Man, would eventually draw most of its superheroes. He has worked with some of the industry’s biggest writers including Frank Miller (on Daredevil) and Mark Millar (on Kick-Ass). On Superman, he is working with the inker Klaus Janson and Geoff Johns, a popular writer who was named DC’s chief creative officer in 2010.

Previews of his Superman pages showed off Mr. Romita’s signature thick line work, hulking figures and dynamic action sequences. The first story line involves Ulysses, who is sent to Earth from his doomed world by his parents. The new creative team for the Man of Steel will most likely give the series a sales boost. Last month, Superman was No. 48 on the list of comic book best sellers with just over 40,000 copies sold of Issue 31. Batman was No. 4 with over 107,000 copies. At No. 1 was Original Sin, a mini-series from Marvel that has revealed dark secrets about its well-known heroes, selling over 147,000 copies. As with the Coke and Pepsi rivalry, many fans divide themselves into DC or Marvel camps. Mr. Romita, who is not a complete stranger to DC — in the 1990s he worked on two stories that united DC and Marvel characters — is a bit more agnostic, looking across the industry at the work of compatriots like Mr. Miller, Jim Lee and Adam and Andy Kubert, among others, for inspiration. “Without competition, you’d be nothing,” Mr. Romita said.

He also said he drew inspiration from films he’s seen and martial arts classes he’s taken with his son to dream up angles or choreography for fight scenes. “My art still isn’t as good as my storytelling,” he said. “But it’s getting better. By the time I’m 75 or 80, I’ll be a good artist.”

You could say that Mr. Romita, 57, is not just leaving Marvel, but also the family shop. His parents both had careers at Marvel: His father is John Romita, a renowned artist who, among other things, designed the look of Mary Jane, Peter Parker’s long-term love interest; and his mother, Virginia, worked as a production manager. The senior Romita has a practical view of his son’s move. “I used to be ceremoniously let go by DC and Marvel,” he recalled. “When you’re in the comic book business, you just go where the work is.”

The younger Mr. Romita found his calling around 1965 when he saw his father inking a Daredevil cover penciled by Jack Kirby. “When he explained to me that Daredevil was blind and a superhero, I was hooked,” Mr. Romita said.

Mr. Romita attended the State University of New York at Farmingdale and majored in advertising illustration and design. After two years — the minimum parental requirement — he took an opportunity to work for Marvel: first providing cover sketches for British reprints and then as a production assistant. “I conned my parents to let me try it and if it didn’t work out, I’d go back to school,” he said.

Mr. Romita said that Scott Edelman, the Marvel editor who gave him his first break, told him, “I don’t believe in nepotism, but I don’t believe in anti-nepotism either,” before offering him the art chores on Spider-Man. Mr. Romita’s parents’ approach was more tough love: “We never went out of our way to make his path any easier,” his father said.

Both father and son told a story illustrating that point.

John Jr. was once running late on a Marvel assignment. His mother, the production manager, called him and threatened, “If you can’t do the pages, we’ll get someone else.” But she quickly followed up with a second call: “Hello, John? This is your mom. Are you feeling O.K.?”