TORONTO — Tim Kring has only himself to blame. When he created “Heroes” for NBC in 2006, it was something new and fresh and, for a season or two, invigorating. It opened the doors of television to comics-style storytelling and superpowered saviors, and they’ve run rampant since.

So his new sequel, the 13-episode mini-series “Heroes Reborn” (beginning on Sept. 24 on NBC), has its challenges. It needs to measure up to the original while standing out in a TV landscape now populated by flashy costumed champions from the pages of Marvel and DC Comics. And it needs to answer the “Why?”: Why revive a show that petered out five years ago, having lost about two-thirds of its original audience?

Its two-hour opening episode, which had its premiere on Tuesday night at the Toronto International Film Festival, doesn’t have a very good answer. “Heroes” was all about surprise and the big moment — the twists and reveals that kept you interested, despite the show’s mundane writing, helter-skelter plotting, uneven performances and painfully cosmic narration. The “Heroes Reborn” opener had its share of potentially showstopping moments, but they land awkwardly and without much force. In place of wonder, there is mostly nostalgia.

Picking up after the “Heroes” finale — in which a postscript showed the public revelation of the existence of people with unusual powers — “Reborn” initially posits a world in which normal humans and “evos” (evolved humans) are learning to live in harmony. That lasts about two minutes before the evos are blamed for a Sept. 11-style attack, and it’s back to business as usual: paranoia, hiding and running, shadowy conspiracies, dead bodies.

The setup allows Mr. Kring and his writers to recapitulate one of the best aspects of the original show: the gradual introduction of the ordinary-looking heroes and the revelation of their powers. Among the more prominent new characters in the premiere are an Illinois teenager (Robbie Kay) who can make things and people disappear by touching them, and a Japanese woman (Kiki Sukezane) who can enter the world of a popular video game. It’s not clear how her power will be useful, but her story line — which includes scenes in 3-D animation set inside the game — drew the loudest response from the audience at the premiere. Another character, unnamed and seen in one brief scene, possesses flying abilities like Nathan Petrelli’s from the original series.

The multistranded story that the assorted heroes and regular humans will act out looks as if it could be as complicated and potentially muddled as before. Heroes are being hunted by various parties:husband-and-wife vigilantes (Zachary Levi and Judi Shekoni) seeking revenge for their son’s death, a mysterious wealthy woman and probably some sort of evil or possibly benign corporation. The world needs saving again, apparently from a threat that involves what looks like a black hole hovering over the Arctic.

For fans of the original, the slow pulse and routine feeling of much of this early exposition can be forgiven, perhaps, as long as tokens of the earlier series are introduced with sufficient regularity and reverence. Chief among these artifacts is Jack Coleman, the only “Heroes” actor with a prominent part in the “Reborn” pilot, and the horn-rimmed glasses he wears as Noah Bennet, both scourge and protector of those with powers. His appearance drew cheers from the premiere audience, as did a cameo by Jimmy Jean-Louis as the memory-wiping Haitian, a shot of a young blond woman in a cheerleader’s uniform and a sign reading “Linderman Junior High School.”

Other past performers, including Masi Oka, Greg Grunberg and Sendhil Ramamurthy, are to appear in future episodes. The show will need them, because the performers and characters in the new ensemble aren’t showing the distinctiveness achieved by some of the members of the old cast, who were unknown then: Mr. Oka, Hayden Panettiere, James Kyson Lee, Zachary Quinto, David Anders. Mr. Kay has some charm as the troubled teenager, Tommy. And Henry Zebrowski, as a conspiracy theorist, and Toru Uchikado, as a brash video gamer, are amusing, but none of the characters provide the sheer fun of Mr. Oka’s Hiro Nakamura or the menace of Mr. Quinto’s Sylar. (While we’re speaking of characters, it seems worth noting that Ms. Shekoni’s Joanne Collins, so far the only black figure in the new cast, is essentially defined by her anger at her son’s death.)

The strengths and weaknesses of “Heroes” were bound together: Mr. Kring’s metaphysical maundering could drive you crazy, and he couldn’t sustain a tight narrative past Season 1, but he had an ability to pack honest emotion into comic-book contrivances and to keep topping himself with surprise twists. Those talents may yet kick in for “Reborn,” once the housekeeping of the pilot is out of the way.

Asked after the premiere screening whether he would have even more stories to tell about the “Heroes” universe, Mr. Kring didn’t close the door, saying, “The world always needs saving.” It’s not clear, though, whether we always need to watch.

IF YOU STEALBy Jason208 pp. Fantagraphics, $29.99.

The Norwegian artist who goes by the single name Jason is the most deadpan comedian in comics. His stories are almost always rooted in loud genres that he reduces to quiet gestures, and he writes and draws them with draconian formal constraints, the most obvious of which is that all of his characters have nearly expressionless animal heads. This new book is a set of short pieces, constructed in the scorched rubble where B-movie matinees used to dwell; they’re populated by assassins and vampires, but in Jason’s comics, we’re less likely to see a military showdown against a huge, murderous chameleon than a couple of animal-headed civilians placidly watching the fight from a distance. His favorite trick is swapping out the rules of a story midway through it, as in the title piece, a meditation on a burglar’s life that somehow becomes a homage to René Magritte. “New Face” piles up every “criminal gets plastic surgery to disguise himself” cliché ever stamped onto pulp, then peels the meaning of the text away from the meaning of the images like bandages; “Ask Not” presents itself as a “Da Vinci Code”-style conspiracy yarn about the Kennedy assassination, and ends up somewhere much stranger.

STEP ASIDE, POPSA Hark! A Vagrant CollectionBy Kate Beaton 166 pp. Drawn & Quarterly, $19.95.

Beaton’s online comic “Hark! A Vagrant” has no particular format or subject other than whatever Beaton finds interesting at the time — usually something having to do with history or literature — but her assured doodles and ability to find absurdity anywhere are unmistakable. So is her orthography: Nobody’s ever gotten so much comedy out of omitting punctuation. This collection gathers her recent strips, whose topics include “Wuthering Heights,” Ida B. Wells, early submarine design and the rivalry between Chopin and Liszt (“We are both on the cover of ‘Enormous Ego’ this week”). Even Beaton’s swiftest gags are often formally audacious, like strips whose first panels are the covers of old Nancy Drew books or illustrations from broadside ballads. This time, she’s started to experiment with longer ­pieces, including “Straw Feminists in the Closet” (they emerge, monstrous and hissing, to burn bras and tear down Justin Bieber posters) and an inspired tale about the guy who tries to pick up Janet Jackson in her “Nasty” video (he ends up seeking rehabilitation at St. Jude’s Home for the Nasty).

THE UNBEATABLE SQUIRREL GIRLVolume 1: Squirrel PowerBy Ryan North and Erica ­Henderson 128 pp. Marvel, paper, $15.99.

North and Henderson’s collaboration may, in fact, be the first post-Beaton ­superhero comic book: There are traces of her sensibility scattered all over it. (To be fair, Beaton probably picked up a thing or two from North’s “Dinosaur Comics.”) Introduced in 1991 by Spider-Man’s co-creator Steve Ditko, Squirrel Girl — a cheerful teenager named Doreen Green with “the proportional speed and strength of a squirrel” — had until now been a running joke. North and Henderson’s take on her is delightful, a lighter-than-air fantasy that leverages the character’s ridiculousness into tender hilarity. North’s story tacks straight into the convolutions of Marvel’s superhero universe, with its rogues’ galleries and cosmic forces (the godlike Galactus is coming to devour the Earth, and only the squirrels know about it!) — but Squirrel Girl herself is untouched by melodrama. She sometimes has to kick “bad guuuuuys’ evil butts,” in the words of a theme song she sings; still, she prefers creative, nonviolent solutions, generally involving nuts. And Henderson’s cartoony linework draws out the comedic potential in everything from a collegiate crush to a battle suit made of living squirrels.

BITCH PLANET

Book 1: Extraordinary MachineBy Kelly Sue DeConnick and Valentine De Landro136 pp. Image, paper, $9.99.

DeConnick and De Landro’s sci-fi ­women-in-prison comic book transforms misogynist tropes into lava-­spitting feminist rage. This first collection establishes the premise: In the near future, the smug old-boy network that runs the world is sending “noncompliant” women off to a prison planet officially called the Auxiliary Compliance Outpost. De Landro’s chunky images make his characters’ postures and faces speak for them, and the guest artist Robert Wilson IV draws a chapter devoted to the series’ most compelling character, the dreadlocked juggernaut Penny Rolle, locked up for offenses including “insubordination” and “wanton obesity.” (Forced to experience a vision of her ideal self, Rolle sees herself exactly as she is.) There’s nominally an overarching plot, but DeConnick is more concerned with building up her cast of misfits and outcasts, lampooning patriarchal rhetoric and upending the mechanics of exploitation flicks: One of the most suspenseful sequences in the book is technically a lesbian shower scene, framed to be anything but arousing.

THE DIVINEIllustrated by Asaf Hanuka and Tomer Hanuka Written by Boaz Lavie150 pp. First Second, paper, $19.99.

This book is a fantasy inspired by a real image: the famous 1999 photograph of Luther and Johnny Htoo, the prepubescent, chain-smoking Burmese twins who led the guerrilla group God’s Army. Boaz Lavie’s story concerns an American explosives expert sent to the fictional country of Quanlom, where he falls afoul of a legion of children led by magical brothers, warring to protect a dragon they believe lives inside the mountain he’s come to blow up. This graphic novel, though, is a too rare example of artists getting top billing — another pair of twins, illustrators Asaf and Tomer Hanuka, balance hair-thin contours with flat, solid swaths of color. Their sensitivity to shade and form makes even the story’s quotidian images worth lingering over: mottled boar meat on a spit, shadows of leaves in a forest, the slashes of fluorescent light across a corporate washroom. There’s a saturated magenta, far away from the earth tones that dominate the book, that the Hanukas reserve to imply the presence of magic and horror. By the story’s climax, as the children’s fantasies of revenge become real, it trickles like blood across page after page.

Aliceana Belling marched past the rows of pink princess dresses at her local Walmart last month and headed straight to the superhero outfits.

She mulled the options for Halloween. Iron Man? Spider-Man? The Hulk?

Then she saw the Captain America suit, shiny shield and all.

“I can fly in the air outside!” Aliceana, 3, said from her home in Fond du Lac, Wis., where she plans to go trick-or-treating as the Marvel Comics superhero this Halloween. “I’m going to save dogs!”

Aliceana and her parents, Brittany and A.J. Belling, make up one of many families that are fed up with the strict princess dresses for girls, action figures for boys stereotyping that they say still pervades children’s toys, clothes, costumes and other merchandise.

Retailers and manufacturers in the $22 billion toy industry, along with media companies, are starting to heed these concerns. Not only are toymakers more wary of marketing some items only to boys or only to girls, they and major store chains are creating gender-neutral or androgynous labels and store aisles.

In August, Target announced that it would no longer use signs to label toys for girls and boys in their stores. For the first time this year, the Disney Store is banishing girl and boy designations from its children’s Halloween costumes, labeling all outfits “for kids.” It also has switched to generic tags on lunchboxes, backpacks and other accessories.

Amazon no longer uses gender-based categories for children’s toys. Next spring, Mattel is introducing a line of action figures based on a new franchise, DC Super Hero Girls. And on Monday , the TV series “Supergirl” debuted on CBS.

“The gender barriers are breaking down, and both manufacturers and retailers are not labeling toys like they used to,” said Jim Silver, the editor in chief of TTPM, a toy review website. “The industry’s learned that you shouldn’t be labeling for a specific gender. There are so many girls who want to be Iron Man and Captain America, and boys who want to play with Easy-Bake.”

The shift is part of a wider movement in retail to blur gender lines, as society moves beyond stereotypes, and celebrities as varied as Caitlyn Jenner and Jaden Smith put a spotlight on an array of gender identities. In fashion, designers like Rad Hourani are creating androgynous labels, and top-tier designers, from Marc Jacobs to Hermès, are eroding the divide between feminine and masculine clothes.

The rise in popularity of athletic wear and relatively genderless offerings from companies like North Face and Patagonia have also helped spread unisex design. Footwear brands like Converse, Vans or Birkenstock also now market the same styles for both men and women. Wearable technology, like smartwatches and activity monitors, has been relatively gender-neutral.

”If a guy wants to go out and buy a woman’s scarf and thinks that’s fashionable, whatever his sexual preference, it’s going to happen,” said Marshal Cohen, chief industry analyst at the New York-based research firm NPD. “This is something where the world jumped way ahead of retail, and now retail is trying to catch up.”

Still, the most significant shifts in gender categorizing — and certainly the most debated — have been in children’s merchandise. The shifts stem from a growing recognition, first among niche outlets and now among mainstream companies, of the role many traditional toys, clothes and costumes have played in reinforcing gender stereotyping. Experts have linked the items to all manner of gender disparities, including gaps in boys’ and girls’ self-confidence levels and career choices.

Parents have taken to social media to protest retailers’ overly girly offerings, or to show off their children defying gender norms. Last year, Land’s End introduced a line of science-themed shirts for girls after a New Jersey mother, Lisa Ryder, posted an open letter on the brand’s Facebook page calling out its boy-only science collection. More recently, a Virginia father, Paul Henson, garnered widespread kudos online for his Facebook post about his 3-year-old son, who intends to dress as Elsa from Disney’s “Frozen” movie this Halloween.

Target’s move to remove gender labels from its toy section came after Abi Bechtel of Ohio took to Twitter to protest a sign on display at the retailer for “Girls’ Building Sets.” Target announced in August that it was removing gender-based signs from its children’s toys and bedding aisles.

The retailer’s online store still labels girls’ and boys’ toys, however, because its data suggests that many shoppers on the site still search for products by gender, according to a spokeswoman, Molly Snyder. (The site does allow shoppers to search for gender-neutral toys.)

Toys “R” Us has not categorized girls’ and boys’ toys in its stores for some time, said Richard Barry, the retailer’s global chief merchandising officer. “What we’re seeing is that there are different play patterns that appeal to different kids, and gender lines are not necessarily what drives that,” Mr. Barry said.

The retailer’s role-play series — like its Pizza Chef or Cash Register play sets — are popular with girls and boys, he said. (The Toys “R” Us website continues to designate girls’ and boys’ toys; its Housekeeping and Ironing Board play sets, both in pink, are considered girls’ toys.)

And despite the recent changes, a stroll through the toy section at a Target or a Toys “R” Us is still a gender-specific experience. At a Target store in Brooklyn, there were the “Frozen” princess dresses, My Little Pony figurines, and the convertible-driving, glitter-haired Barbie dolls in one half of the children’s section. Then there were the separate aisles of Roboraptor robot dinosaurs, Star Wars spaceships and Nerf guns.

Segregation along gender lines in the toy category had worsened over the past decades before the recent pushback, said Elizabeth V. Sweet, a lecturer in sociology at the University of California, Davis who has written extensively on gender stereotypes in children’s toys. She puts much of the blame on the dismantling, in 1984, of restrictions on television programming aimed at children.

Soon after, the top toys, like Transformers, GoBots and My Little Pony, all had their own TV shows. This media franchising, she said, with storybook themes for girls and battles and adventures for boys, still colors much merchandise along gender.

“The pink aisle is still really pink, because the products in the pink aisle are still really pink,” Ms. Sweet said.

“Practically everything is gendered,” she added. “School supplies. Toothbrushes. Snacks with bunnies or princesses on them, and snacks with Superman. And boy is the gender-neutral default. For girls, they ‘shrink it and pink it.’”

Some toy makers have made some efforts to change that rigid assortment — but not without controversy. Lego’s “Friends” line, introduced in 2012 to appeal to girls, upset consumers because of its pink and purple blocks, curvy figurines and themes like hairdressing and horse riding.

Lego responded by adding play sets that included an inventor’s studio and veterinarian’s office, and has said the line has been a huge success. The Danish company is now gaining ground on Mattel, the world’s largest toymaker, raking in sales of 14.1 billion kroner (about $2.1 billion) in the first six months of this year, compared with Mattel’s $1.9 billion.

Mattel has won praise on parenting blogs for DC Super Hero Girls, a line it developed with DC Comics that will go on sale next year. The figures, led by Wonder Woman, are athletic. They strike powerful poses, and there is not a pink outfit in sight.

Young girls that Mattel surveyed had said they “wanted their superheroes to be authentic superheroes,” according to Tania Missad, Mattel’s director of global consumer insights. Girls roundly dismissed an early prototype that put the superheroes in heels, she said. “They told us, ‘She’s not going to be able to fight with heels.’”

Still, Mattel’s research showed some differences in what girls and boys wanted in their action figures, Ms. Missad said. “For boys it’s very much about telling a story of the good guy killing the villain. There’s a winner and a loser,” she said. “Girls wanted the action and the battle, but would tell us: ‘Why does the good girl have to kill the villain? Can’t they be friends in the end?’”

Jess Day of Let Toys Be Toys, a British nonprofit group that promotes gender-neutral toys, says that’s nonsense.

“Research repeatedly shows that boys and girls are more alike than different,” Ms. Day said in an email. “We’d like to see more products that are simply aimed at children who like superheroes, and that’s an interest that crosses gender.”

Mrs. Belling, who blogs at The Domestic Geek, complains of the general dearth in female action figures: “Princess Leia is usually missing” from Star Wars merchandise, she said. And she was worried that Aliceana’s Captain America “Muscle” costume, “meant to fit young boys,” she said, would fit awkwardly on her frame.

Mrs. Belling, for now, is relieved that Aliceana’s superhero costume seems to fit, at least. Aliceana has begged to wear it in the house and yard before Halloween night.

“She’s often been interested in clothes, then they’d turn out to be for boys,” Mrs. Belling said. “But Captain America, she’s actually pulling that off.”

SAN DIEGO —  A critic at Comic-Con International feels less like a fish out of water than like an excluded middleman. The local currency is not skepticism but enthusiasm, and though there is plenty of room in the cavernous halls of the convention center for disappointment and disagreement, irony is thoroughly banished. “Thank you all for being so amazing,” a woman said to a panel of television actors during a Q. and A. session, and the questions usually rise to about that level of toughness. The crowds gather under the signs of sincerity and celebration. Who needs critics to spoil the fun? Why would you walk through the Southern California summer sun in armor and body paint, or roast slowly on the grass while waiting to see a movie trailer, unless you really meant it?

This is a place where fans encounter one another in pursuit of the objects of their devotion, a transaction that is both straightforward and laden with complicated and contradictory meanings. The basic activities are simple and familiar: buying and selling, gawking and signing autographs, dressing up in costumes and waiting in line. The entertainment divisions of conglomerates offer peeks into their product-development pipelines, breaking “news” about future superhero and “Star Wars” movies and impending seasons of “The Simpsons” and “Game of Thrones.” Smaller entities — independent publishers and film production companies, toy retailers and comic-book dealers, scrappy artists and writers — stake out their niches, too.

All of that can happen on the Internet. And it’s possible to theorize about it from a distance, which is more or less how I make my living. But four days in San Diego have convinced me that to grapple with what American popular culture feels like in the 21st century, you really have to be there. The joy and the bewilderment, the exhaustion and the longing, the frissons of YOLO and FOMO that attend every credit-card swipe and Instagram picture — it all courses through your brain and body like rays from a supervillain’s superweapon.

Comic-Con is a trade show and a bazaar, an academic conference tucked into a pop-up theme park, a wholesome family outing and a bonanza for every bar nearby. Even though it’s all one big event, it can be hard to locate the principle that makes its parts cohere. The Comic-Con cosmos includes fans of science fiction and fantasy novels, video and role-playing gamers, steampunks and Trekkies, would-be Tarantinos and binge-watchers of just about any television show whose characters are either animated or costumed or both.

It’s easy enough to mock this spectacle, or to complain, as some old-timers do, that it’s all been co-opted by the movie studios and “the big two” (meaning DC and Marvel). But it’s also possible to marvel, so to speak, at how quickly and completely what were once subcultural pursuits have conquered the mainstream, and to appreciate the bottom-up, populist aspects of that conquest. The commonly heard phrase “fan culture” suggests a world made by consumers, a matter less of capitalist control than of popular participation.

At a panel called “How Comic Books Took Over Hollywood,” Axel Alonso, Marvel’s editor in chief, remembered putting aside his early interest in comics when his adolescent attention turned to sports and girls. “It used to be that cool people looked down on nerds,” he said. “Now I know a lot of cool people who pretend to be nerds.”

Maybe now “nerd” is a global category, which means that Comic-Con represents a mainstream made up entirely of misfits.

Or, to put it another way, what was once a body of esoteric lore is now a core curriculum, and what was once a despised cult is now a church universal and triumphant. From its beginnings among the baby-boom undergraduates who made a fetish of “The Lord of the Rings,” the work of a British professor of old English literature, serious fan culture has always had a scholarly side. And since the word “fan” derives from “fanatic,” more than merely secular knowledge is at stake. Invocations of quasi-religious experience — Comic-Con as “sacred space,” plot points and character traits as “canon” — are commonplace at the panels. Unbelievers are not so much unwelcome as irrelevant. For a long weekend in July, this city a few hours down the freeway from Hollywood and Disneyland becomes a pilgrimage site for something like 130,000 worshipers. It’s both ordeal and ecstasy, and the secular observer is in no real position to judge. You arrive as an ethnographer, evolve into a participant observer and start to feel like a convert, an addict to what is surely the modern-day opiate of the masses.

What are the doctrines and canons of this faith? In some ways, they aren’t so mysterious. The Comic-Con pilgrims, with their homemade costumes and branded bags of merchandise, represent the fundamentalist wing of the ecumenical creed of fandom. Almost everyone in the world outside falls somewhere on the spectrum of observance. We go to movies, we watch television, we build things out of Lego. I went to Comic-Con thinking I was going to study the folkways of an exotic tribe. I didn’t suspect I would find myself.

Literally where I found myself, for most of the four days, was in line. It’s the shared experience that unites the diverse subcultures, and the most available topic of conversation is just how long and how many those lines are. You could either figure out which line you wanted to join — would you rather be attacked by zombies or score swag from “The Peanuts Movie”? Cop an “exclusive” Marvel toy or a drawn-to-order sketch from the indie animator Bill Plympton? — or follow the herd. “What’s this line for?” is a question I heard most often from people who were already a dozen or more bodies into it.

In other eras and societies — the Great Depression, the Soviet Union — long lines signify scarcity or oppression. In the Bizarro World that is 21st-century America, it’s the opposite: Long lines are signs of abundance and hedonism. Much can be learned about a civilization from studying its queuing habits, and Comic-Con surpasses even the Disney theme parks in the sophistication of its crowd management and the variety of its arrangements.

The lines for the booths and the smaller meeting rooms conform to the elementary rules of geometry. But the larger spaces require more elaborate systems, and they are nothing compared with the protocols for entering Hall H, the 6,500-seat auditorium for the big movie presentations. In that case, you can line up at night for a bracelet that guarantees you a place in line for the next morning’s first event. The Comic-Con guidebook helpfully explains that you can either take your spot in that line right away and stay through the night or arrive before 7:30 a.m., which is to say about three hours before the doors open.

Or you can arrive later in the day and settle into an al fresco holding area, divided into “chutes” like a rodeo or a slaughterhouse, where you sit on the grass and watch the hours pass while reading the Twitter feeds of the people who were smart enough to grab those bracelets. If you showed up on Saturday morning hoping to catch Quentin Tarantino at 1:30 p.m., you might have made it in to see Joss Whedon three hours later. Or you would have had to harvest the Hall H scoops second hand. That day was full of them. Mr. Tarantino revealed that the lenses used to shoot his new movie, “The Hateful Eight,” had also been used in “Ben-Hur.” (Not the kind of lenses, he stressed, the actual lenses.) Mr. Whedon announced a new comic book. The “Deadpool” trailer received a big ovation.

That is the part of Comic-Con that even true believers sometimes roll their eyes about — the theater of marketing and publicity disguised as fan service. But the richest paradox of Comic-Con, and the key to its mysterious allure, lies in its ability to feel both absolutely corporate and genuinely democratic. In Hall H, you are aware of the distance between fans and celebrities, but also of the symbiosis between them. The most beloved creators here are the ones who can most credibly represent themselves as fans. Filmmakers like Mr. Tarantino or J. J. Abrams, who has taken over the “Star Wars” franchise, enjoy a special, exalted status. They are high priests who emerged from the congregation, geeks who transformed themselves into gods.

But everyone else is made in their image. Even as Comic-Con enforces the distance between the idols and their worshipers it also insists on their shared identity. From one direction, the truth of this is fairly obvious. Most people who draw comic books grew up reading them. Game designers tend to be gamers at heart. The Q. and A. sessions at industry panels emphasized this connection. Editors and marketing executives at DC and Marvel reminisced about childhood discoveries of the Justice League and the Fantastic Four.

The deeper mythology of Comic-Con is that fans and creators are joined in communion, sharing in the holy work of imagination. The logic of popular culture today suggests that every fan is also an artist. This is literally true in the blossoming fields of fan art and fan fiction, in which devotees of intellectual properties (the ubiquitous San Diego shorthand for books, comics, movies and shows) make their own images and stories involving their favorite characters. Cosplay is a live-action form of fan art, or maybe fan nonfiction, and the owners of the intellectual property rights are careful not to interfere too much.

The organizers of Comic-Con, meanwhile, provide encouragement for fans who dream of professionalizing their passions. A smattering of panels offered advice on how to pitch an idea, how to market a product, how to make a living in a crowded marketplace. Social media and digital technology encourage the fantasy that everyone can make stuff and put it out there for everyone else.

Or maybe it isn’t a fantasy. The world of popular culture only gets bigger, and as it does it grows more diverse, more inclusive and more confounding. It’s possible to imagine that someday everyone who has a badge at Comic-Con will also have a booth and a speaking slot on a panel, that fan and creator will achieve a singularity like the one predicted for human and machine. It’s almost possible to believe that we’re already there, that people are waiting in line for a chance to see themselves, even if they don’t always recognize the image.

Which line is the right one? Will I like what I find at the end? Why am I here, anyway? You may come to worship, but you stick around to question and to judge. I started out saying that Comic-Con is no place for a critic, but maybe I was fooled by the costumes, and everyone I saw was really a critic in disguise.

9 P.M. (Starz) GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY (2014) A motley crew of baddies, led by the armed professional scavenger Peter Quill (Chris Pratt, above), joins forces to stop a crazed warrior from taking over the universe in James Gunn’s interstellar western, based on the Marvel Comics characters. The cast includes Zoe Saldana as Gamora, a green, mean killing machine; Dave Bautista as the brute Drax; Glenn Close as a space-age Hillary Rodham Clinton; Bradley Cooper as the voice of the raccoon Rocket; and Vin Diesel as a gorgeous tree called Groot, who nibbles his own tender sprouts. Oh, yes — and a blue orb that has incited the mayhem in the first place. “That there’s a palpable directorial sensibility in ‘Guardians of the Galaxy,’ along with other signs of genuine life, helps separate this latest Marvel cash grab from a lot of off-the-rack movie cartoons,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. “Here, a pulse, wit, beauty and a real sensibility have been slipped into the fray, alongside the clockwork guffaws, kabooms and splats.” She added: “The story may be confusing and generic by turns, but if you shake off the bonds of narrative coherency it’s liberating letting the weird words — Yondu, Necrocraft, Sakkaran — just slide right past you, much like the zigzagging, exploding 3-D spaceships. What sticks are the fantastical landscapes, the beautiful creature designs and the actors delivering lively performances, even with strata of makeup and digital wizardry.”

11:15 A.M. (Starz) AMERICAN HUSTLE (2013) Irving Rosenfeld (Christian Bale), a con man with a rococo comb-over, and Sydney Prosser (Amy Adams), his seductive mistress, are forced by an F.B.I. agent (Bradley Cooper) to help ensnare politicians in this screwball comedy, directed by David O. Russell and inspired by the Abscam sting operation begun in 1978, which netted corrupt elected officials but also resulted in entrapment charges. Jennifer Lawrence plays Irving’s adenoidal stay-at-home wife; Jeremy Renner (above middle with, from left, Ms. Adams, Mr. Cooper, Mr. Bale and Ms. Lawrence) is the mayor of Camden, N.J., whose ambitions trump his decency. The film “giddily embraces the excesses of its era, from spandex to ’staches, though it’s a farce that speaks as well to this tarnished age,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times.

1:30 P.M. (TNT) COWBOYS & ALIENS (2011) In 1873 Arizona, Jake Lonergan (Daniel Craig) wakes up bloodied and dazed with a strange metallic bracelet locked on his wrist that turns him into a cowboy with a zap gun — the better to join forces with a ruthless cattle baron (Harrison Ford) and a mysterious traveler (Olivia Wilde) to subdue an army of aliens that is snatching up the townsfolk. The director, Jon Favreau, “wavers uncertainly between goofy pastiche and seriousness in a movie that wastes its title and misses the opportunity to play with, you know, ideas about the western and science-fiction horror,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times of this adaptation of the graphic novel by Scott Mitchell Rosenberg. “Mr. Ford’s presence, along with that of Steven Spielberg (he’s an executive producer), makes you wonder what Mr. Spielberg would have done with this material, though maybe the better question is what Mr. Favreau would have done differently without him.”

7:30 P.M. (21) CONSUELO MACK WEALTHTRACK David J. Winters of the Wintergreen Fund discusses the dangers of index funds.

9 P.M. (Investigation Discovery) PRISON BREAK: THE MANHUNT ENDS The network wraps its coverage of the escape of Richard W. Matt and David Sweat from the Clinton Correctional Facility in Dannemora, N.Y.

1 A.M. (13) THEATER TALK Wynn Handman discusses his career as an acting coach and mentor to Richard Gere, Dustin Hoffman and Denzel Washington, and his role as a founder and the artistic director of the American Place Theater.

What’s Streaming Now

HOOP DREAMS (1994) Steve James follows two young Chicago basketball players throughout their high school careers as they overcome parental drug addiction, family poverty, neighborhood violence and the bumps and bruises that come with the game. Writing in The Times, Caryn James called the documentary “brilliantly revealing.” (fandor.com)

KATHRYN SHATTUCK

I was walking through Central Park last year when I came across a comic on a bench selling jokes for a dollar. After I bought a punch line, we started talking comedy. “My dream,” he said, “is to be like Charlie Barnett.”

Mr. Barnett may be all but unknown to the general public, but almost two decades after he died at age 41, he’s become a legend to a wide range of comedians. He acted in a few movies, like “D.C. Cab,” but he’s most famous for the job he didn’t get, losing a role on “Saturday Night Live” to Eddie Murphy because he struggled to read the cue cards. An explosive physical performer, Mr. Barnett is considered by many to be the greatest street comic of all time, performing inside and around the fountain at Washington Square Park. He played clubs and occasionally toured, but his true gift was cracking up crowds of strangers who didn’t know they were walking into a stand-up show when he yelled his signature opening: “Showtime! Showtime!”

“He was mesmerizing,” said Jeffrey Ross, who hung out with Mr. Barnett in the 1980s before becoming the signature star of Comedy Central roasts. “You could not see him and keep walking.”

Dave Chappelle, according to his former manager Barry Katz, cried after seeing Mr. Barnett for the first time, saying, “I’m never going to be as funny as that guy.”

Mr. Barnett is the quintessential example of that most romantic figure in comedy: the hilarious stand-up who never quite got his due. That type is comedy’s answer to the storied playground basketball players who would have surely been better than Michael Jordan if not for injury, drugs or some bad break. In the new comedy boom, which seems obsessed with backstage information and overlooked corners of the scene, such stories are more popular than ever.

The superb new documentary “Call Me Lucky,” for instance, focuses on Barry Crimmins, a scathing political comic from Boston who never achieved the fame of equally righteous stand-ups like George Carlin or Bill Hicks. But with the help of testimonials from Steven Wright, Patton Oswalt and others, the movie makes a powerful case for his legacy. In what looks to be another underdog story, there’s a documentary in the works about Rick Crom, a witty veteran comic who hosts shows at the Comedy Cellar but is best known for one scene from an episode of “Louie” in which he discusses the use of a gay slur.

Over the past four years of interviewing people in comedy, I have made a point of asking the question: Who is the funniest comic who never made it big? Larry David mentioned Bob Shaw, an almost forgotten comic who was widely respected in the 1970s stand-up scene. (He co-wrote several “Seinfeld” episodes.)

Rick Newman, who founded Catch a Rising Star, mentioned Ronnie Shakes, a superb comic who delivered taut one-liners like, “I want to be the last man on earth, just to see if all those girls were lying to me.” Mr. Shakes is also the favorite comedian of Jonathan Katz, star of the animated TV series “Dr. Katz, Professional Therapist.”

Many of these unheralded comics died young. (Mr. Shakes had a heart attack while jogging at 40.) Others didn’t have acts that fit neatly into mainstream outlets.

And then there’s the genre of beloved comic who is funny in conversation with other comedians but not onstage. “They are called ‘table comics,’ and the classic example is Joe Ancis,” Jay Leno said in an interview, mentioning the best friend of Rodney Dangerfield (who called Mr. Ancis “the funniest man in the world”). “He was funny when he was comfortable with you, but he wasn’t comfortable with strangers.”

In a similar vein, Marc Maron cited Steven Pearl, whom he met in the 1980s. “He was kind of a comedy savant, a wizard,” Mr. Maron said, adding that Mr. Pearl ran in the same circles as Robin Williams. “He had a rapid-fire, improvisational manic style. Offstage you would marvel at what he would do.” Mr. Maron was speaking in a reverent tone, then shifted to one that sounded more matter-of-fact: “Then he’d go onstage and just do a set.” Mr. Pearl is still doing stand-up.

Then there are popular stand-ups who never got the big breaks that allowed them to skyrocket to a fame that would match their reputation in clubs. There are many famous examples, like Elayne Boosler, a dominant comic and peer of David Letterman and Mr. Leno. Still performing, she’s known for a swaggering, feisty wit and well-honed punch lines, but she was never a favorite of the “Tonight Show” host Johnny Carson, who once said, in Rolling Stone, that female comics could be “a little aggressive for my taste.” As articles and books have raised consciousness about sexism in the industry, her reputation has grown.

But Ms. Boosler is hardly the only hilarious female comic from that era who didn’t become a television star. Marsha Warfield “had the best deadpan glare I have ever seen,” said Merrill Markoe, who performed stand-up at the Comedy Store and helped create “Late Night With David Letterman.” She added: “Boosler was definitely held back by sex discrimination. Probably Marsha was, too.” Ms. Warfield is also still performing (she was just at the Laugh Factory in Las Vegas this month), but is best known for a supporting role on “Night Court.”

As with so many things, the Internet has changed the status of these unsung or underrated comedians. Besides depleting the power of many of the old gatekeepers, the web has also made it much harder for a hugely talented comic killing in front of crowds to languish in obscurity. Regional scenes are less remote than they once were, and if a guy like Mr. Barnett were performing in parks today, his act would be filmed, posted on social media and go viral. In fact, one of the few recordings of him performing in Washington Square Park already has more than 200,000 views on YouTube.

If media saturation is diminishing the numbers of ignored comic geniuses, it’s hard not to find this a little bittersweet. Besides reminding us that show business, no matter what anybody says, is no meritocracy, these figures are fun to gossip and argue about. Even Mr. Barnett has his dissenters.

The comic Colin Quinn played shows with him, and when I asked Mr. Quinn about that a few years ago, he adopted the blunt manner of someone wanting to cut through the mythology to give it to you straight.

“He was a master performer, but he never wrote a joke in his life,” Mr. Quinn said.

Then Mr. Quinn couldn’t resist adding his two cents about another storied and mostly forgotten street comic, Rick Aviles, who died at the age of 42. “It was worth watching Charlie Barnett a couple of times,” he said. “But Rick Aviles — heresy! — was 10 times better.”