CARTOON COUNTY My Father and His Friends in the Golden Age of Make-Believe By Cullen Murphy Illustrated. 260 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $27.

With harlots in fish-net stockings hanging on each arm, a self-satisfied grandee, shades and ascot in place, struts down a city sidewalk. A policeman clears the way, and as he kicks a blind beggar into traffic, he bellows, “Out of the way, you swine! A cartoonist is coming!”

To the few hundred American oddballs who draw funny pictures for a living, there’s never been a more hilariously inapt portrait of a cartoon professional than the one described above, inked by the great B. Kliban late in his career. Many of us have a copy pinned to our walls, not to keep us humble (we have no choice), but to celebrate our forced distance from the more conventional metrics of success. As Cullen Murphy admits in his warm and graceful memoir, “Cartoon County,” comics creators have long been among the most dimly perceived of celebrities, and when they venture out into society, they are usually sized up as dentists or insurance adjusters long before the awful truth comes tumbling out.

Fortunately, this is not a significant problem, since the syndicated cartoonist is rarely spotted at large. The deadlines and hours are brutal, and too much involvement with the real world takes time away from the alternate universe the artist must ceaselessly oversee. Newspaper comics are regarded as a kind of public utility — a reliable, 365-days-a-year source of light entertainment. For those whose weekly transmissions keep the machine up and running, every Friday deadline can seem a freight train bearing down, threatening to overwhelm their creative capacity and self-confidence. A few careers have ended in drink, but more typically the rolling dread keeps cartoonists home and out of trouble. Only one of our number has ever been drummed out of the National Cartoonists Society for “conduct unbecoming a member.” (Don’t ask.)

This permanent state of anxiety can be notoriously rough on families, although there’s little evidence of that in Cullen’s remembrance of his father, John Murphy, known widely as Jack and the artist behind the majestic “Prince Valiant.” Jack inherited the strip from its original creator, Hal Foster, in 1970, a transition of auspices so seamless that most readers were unaware of it. Years later, Cullen joined his father in the studio as the strip’s writer, and it is from that unique vantage that this stylishly written and illustrated field guide to the American Cartoonist and his mid-century habitat is drawn.

As he grew up, in postwar Cos Cob, Conn., the young Murphy enjoyed the company of his father’s merry colleagues, most of whom were clustered in the surrounding area. Fairfield County had become home to the nation’s leading illustrators and cartoonists, primarily because of proximity to New York City’s syndicates and magazines, but also because of the lack of a state income tax. The county had not yet become the exclusive suburb of choice for hedge fund managers, and homeownership was still within the means of artists with irregular paychecks.

Most were World War II veterans, and several had formal art training before the war, leading to some interesting postings. Bil Keane of “The Family Circus” drew a feature for Pacific Stars and Stripes. “Gordo’s” Gus Arriola made animated training films. Jack Murphy’s talent had landed him in the Pacific headquarters of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, where he found himself assigned to do oil and watercolor portraits of the senior staff. Judging from his diaries and letters, he did little else but attend church services and work, completing no fewer than six portraits of MacArthur himself, as well as three of the general’s wife and one of his son. As Cullen puts it, “Mass. Paint. Mass. Paint. Mass. Paint. Substitute the pope for the Old Man, and the schedule might have been Michelangelo’s.”

Whatever their wartime contributions, the returning cartoonists couldn’t wait to shrug off the regimentation of military life and return to their “vaguely anarchic” chosen field. The 1950s and early ’60s were the Golden Age of American comics, or at least its glorious tail end. Newspapers were fat and happy, and the hugely popular Sunday comics supplement — comprising about 35 square feet of strips! — arrived on doorsteps wrapped around the news sections, not tucked inside. Cullen recalls an experiment conducted by the supplement’s parent company, Hearst: Various sections of the paper were omitted to see who would notice and care. When a news section was missing, only a small fraction of people called in. When the comics were left out, almost 90 percent of readers complained.

Jack’s original creation was a prizefighter strip called “Big Ben Bolt,” but he dedicated much of his career to “Prince Valiant,” which, by the time he took it over, was already in a class by itself, a stately tent pole of the Sunday comics. With its exquisitely detailed scenes and lack of dialogue balloons, it bore little resemblance to its comics-page peers, evoking instead the elegant illustrations of Gilded Age storybooks. Its level of craftsmanship made “Prince Valiant” a classy anomaly, which is perhaps why it was often placed on the final page of the section, away from the big-foot riffraff. Reading it was a bit of a commitment, as its pacing compelled the reader to slow down, to linger over the intricate images. In designing the page, father and son worked in masterly counterpoint, the text sections and images sliding gracefully past one another in time, interrupted only by the “gutters,” those white spaces between panels where the reader’s imagination took over, advancing the story.

It was an erudite enterprise, meticulously researched and plotted out months in advance. Preparation included consulting voluminous files of images that Jack collected over the years, carefully cataloged under headings like “Ne’er-do-wells, General,” “Arthurian” or “Unrequited.” When just the right image could not be located, one of the children was summoned to take Polaroids of their father festooned in medieval costume or wielding armaments that he stored in the back of the studio. If a child’s pose was needed, Cullen or a sibling was drafted as the model; a queen required the participation of their mother, Joan. Even a visiting neighbor or milkman might be enlisted, only to see himself pop up in the comics six weeks later dressed as a barbarian or wizard. On one occasion, when Cullen pointed out to his father that every face in a band of Goths resembled Jack’s own, he brushed it off, replying that they all would have been related anyway.

These entertaining casting calls aside, Jack mostly worked alone, either in silence or with “Million Dollar Movie” on in the background. When his son joined the family business — “the guild,” Cullen calls it — his occasional presence must have been welcome, but collaboration was mostly conducted from a distance. Still working in isolation, Jack would have had no need to alter the cartoonist’s dress code, one of rumpled indifference. One evening he was discovered with a rope holding up his pants. Every day being sub-“Casual Friday” was one of the few perks of the business. All that mattered to his employers was his packet of sublime medieval illuminations, delivered on time.

Cullen Murphy has had other notable successes as an editor, essayist and author, all presumably head-clearing pursuits that give him a valuable perspective lacking in those of us who rarely come up for air. I was especially moved by his modest appraisal of the ultimate significance of our profession: “Was it anything more noteworthy than bringing laughter (and adventure) to other human beings, while keeping the show on the road? What any civilization mostly needs is not the world-altering legacy of a few but the numberless people of talent who play a role … sustaining their contemporaries in the brief moment we have together.”

In Murphy’s reckoning, cartoonists are no more or less indispensable to society than the dentists and adjusters they evidently resemble. They simply play their part. Still, Murphy obviously knows how lucky he’s been: There are worse places to work than Camelot.

THE GREEN HAND AND OTHER STORIES By Nicole Claveloux Translated by Donald Nicholson Smith Illustrated. 100 pp. New York Review Comics. $24.95.

First published in France in the late 1970s and now collected for the first time in English, Nicole Claveloux’s comics are both psychedelic and deeply sober. She was a frequent contributor to Métal Hurlant (Heavy Metal), a French science-fiction magazine, though her work doesn’t land firmly in any particular genre. Darkly humorous, existential, erotic, trance inducing — these comics wield a rare and innovative power.

In “The Little Vegetable Who Dreamed He Was a Panther,” a root vegetable who identifies as a highly feminine panther plots ways of becoming one. In “The Ninny and Her Prince Charming,” a woman waits her whole life for love, only to drop dead on her 94th birthday after her prince finally arrives. In “A Little Girl Always in a Dream,” a young girl’s horrible family orders her to eat tapioca pudding and she watches them morph into menacing, interspecies forms. Then her toy dog comes to life, eating the meat off their bones. Later, the girl imagines the onset of her period and sees herself dancing naked in a tidal wave of blood, wild with happiness. “Enough of these disgusting stories!” a family member scolds, perhaps addressing both the little girl and the author herself.

Claveloux’s comics encapsulate the desire to change or reinvent oneself — but also to undermine society and the absurd sense of order it imposes. Her characters are often staring out a window or into the distance off the page, beaming out of the panels that contain them. Their facial features change dramatically from one drawing to the next but never disorientingly so — through Claveloux’s inconsistencies, each story is imbued with the fluidity of perception. It’s not like the fantasies of Disney, where the brand is always front and center. Claveloux takes pleasure in violating the familiar and many of these stories sneer at the stunted, insulting rituals of capitalism. With a wry sort of joy, Claveloux conveys the spectrum contained in polarities: real and unreal, male and female, animal and human, young and old.

The most transporting piece in the collection is the title story, “The Green Hand,” in which Claveloux’s rich, gradient-hued illustrations look like beautiful tattoos — the kind of images one could commit to for life. Rendered with what seems to be black ink, colored markers and an airbrush, the images reflect the theme of transient states — a way of being between selves. The text is written in hypnotic and often hilarious prose by Edith Zha and follows a woman and her housemate: a snarky, lonesome bird of indeterminate gender. The nature of their relationship is also pleasantly elusive — are they lovers? Friends? Is the bird her pet? Her parent? These questions dissolve as we are seduced into the world they share — a kind of portal through which to experience philosophy.

The bird becomes hostile when the woman brings home a sweet-natured talking plant. “Green hand” is the equivalent of “green thumb” in France and taking the phrase literally, the woman dyes her hand green. “Why’s your hand all green?” the bird asks. “To communicate better with her,” the woman says. “Pathetic!” snaps the bird, who ultimately kills the plant. Upon discovering this, the woman floats through the wall in a rage, her dress disintegrating in midair. The story is as much about searching as it is about wandering — how the odyssey of one’s life can feel aimless and how some measure of sorrow is often an appropriate response to the culture.

Yet “The Green Hand” is oddly punctuated with joy — mostly the joy of making alternative sense, but also a joy in expanding the world of the outsider, with whom Claveloux herself identifies: “I most of all wanted to draw fantastic-dreamy-freaky stories that were also personal, and I was only slightly drawn toward women’s lives in general. I don’t really like the militant spirit, which, in my view, roasts the neurons and stops one from thinking freely, and I’ve never been part of a group.” Claveloux embraces the compulsion to fantasize. The brilliance of her comics lies in what they require of the viewer, to be intimate with what is not known, both within the work and themselves.

WHY COMICS? From Underground to Everywhere By Hillary L. Chute Illustrated. 449 pp. Harper. $40.

SLUGFEST Inside the Epic 50-Year Battle Between Marvel and DC By Reed Tucker 286 pp. Da Capo Press. $27.

In her wonderful book “Why Comics? From Underground to Everywhere,” Hillary L. Chute suggests that we’re in a blooming, expanding era of the art — call it the protean age. Chute sees comics as a sequential medium, which at its heart “is about distillation and condensation.” The comics theorist Scott McCloud calls this “amplification through simplification”; Art Spiegelman just calls it “picture writing.” However they’re defined, comics are everywhere, on big and little screens, on the page and online. Wonder Woman is a movie star; the Muslim superhero Ms. Marvel, a Pakistani-American teenager from New Jersey, is fighting the good fight, as is the Black Panther in the series written by Ta-Nehisi Coates.

To answer the question posed by her title, Chute divides her study into the “10 biggest themes in today’s comics and graphic novels,” themes she sees as constituting the “guiding questions on the value of comics today.” Each one receives its own chapter, starting with “Why Disaster?” (“the foundational theme of the comics”) and moving onto “Why Sex?” and “Why Girls?” Although she avoids taking a purely chronological approach, she nevertheless sketches in the medium’s larger historical arc as she moves from question to question, tracing currents and following the line from one artist’s pen to another, from DC Comics to EC Comics and beyond.

Chute wedges a great deal into “Why Comics?,” including history, content analysis, artist interviews, amusing asides and more than 100 pages of illustrations. A professor of English at Northeastern University, she puts across complex ideas without academic jargon, and her writing can be helpfully instructive (“her hand, as cartoonists refer to style”) and sometimes beautiful, as when she writes of the “boxes of time and memory” in Chris Ware’s 2000 opus, “Jimmy Corrigan: The Smartest Kid on Earth.” Her enthusiasm can also be contagious, as I discovered midway through “Why Comics?” when I eagerly started pulling some of my old comics off the shelf.

Untethering her book from linear history frees Chute up, allowing her to leap from idea to idea, rather than simply from one period to another. She fills in the basics, introduces foundational artists and sketches in some of the medium’s industrial history, though largely as a departure point for her discussions of independent artists like Robert Crumb, a leading figure in underground comics, a.k.a. comix — the “x” indicates adult content. (Chute doesn’t go into the legal obscenity fights over comix in detail, which I mention only because in 1969, my father, then working in an East Village bookstore, was arrested for selling a Crumb comix. My dad went free; Crumb kept on outraging.)

Some of Chute’s finest insights involve superheroes, and I was particularly taken with her observation that “a significant feature of the very notion of comics for grown-ups is a rejection of the idealization of men in tights (and women in leotards).” Both that claim and her interest in comics primarily as an auteurist enterprise are in contrast to the mainstream preoccupations of Reed Tucker’s “Slugfest: Inside the Epic 50-Year Battle Between Marvel and DC.” As his subtitle indicates, his book largely concerns the two historically dominant companies in American comics, which he characterizes as “the Coke and Pepsi of spandex.” A former features writer at The New York Post, Tucker embraces this dominance and effectively treats comics as a synonym for superhero comics, its most famous genre.

For the most part, Tucker tracks the company histories of DC and Marvel, how each came into existence, how they were different and how they were the same. DC was stuffier; Marvel looser, ostensibly hipper and finally more in tune with the young adult audience than DC. A lot of this history has been covered elsewhere, as the book’s bibliography indicates. As a writer, Tucker tends to get swept up in details and there’s a lot about rotating company personnel and when various superheroes hit covers solo and in groups (The Avengers #1, September 1963, Iron Man, Thor, etc.), only to be retired, transformed into villains, taken off the shelf and then exhumed for a newly launched series.

Tucker occasionally turns a nice phrase, as when he helps explain Marvel’s impact on the comic-book world, writing that by comparison, at the stodgy old DC, “Robert’s Rules of Order was their greatest supervillain.” Having defined the superhero field decades earlier, DC was “still aiming at little kids” in the late 1960s, profoundly failing to grasp the generational culture divide that Marvel exploited so successfully. Now, each company has been absorbed by larger media conglomerates — Marvel is owned by the Walt Disney Company and DC Comics is part of Time Warner — which brand and sell their comics every which way, including in endless big-screen franchises.

Chute suggests that the popularity of Marvel’s and DC Comics’ superhero movies factors into the popularity and legitimacy of comics in the mainstream. That may be the most positive effect the big screen’s Iron Man, Superman and the rest of their brethren have had on the world. Superhero movies have been a major force at the box office since 2005, when “Batman Begins” resurrected a moribund series, inaugurating the current, seemingly unending superhero-branded cinema. This supremacy can be dispiriting, especially given that the big studios often seem uninterested in making other types of movies, which has led to grim considerations about the very future of film. As I write, five out of this year’s top 10 grossing domestic releases are superhero fantasies.

I’m not sure that Chute answers the metaphysical question posed by the title of her book; it hardly matters. “Why Comics?,” like its subject, encourages you to fill in the blanks and ask your own questions. In addition to sending me to my modest comics library, her references to visual culture also sent me racing down a nice twisty rabbit hole. She raises the topic of visual culture more generally in her discussion of how disaster is represented in comics and what she calls “the media spectacle” of Sept. 11, a date that, as she writes, “ushered in a new, intensified global visual culture heavily invested in articulating — and often actually documenting — disaster and violence.”

Chute doesn’t distinguish among the types of images that make the present what she calls “the most visually amplified era in recent memory,” with its “videos, GIFs, digital photographs and myriad visual interfaces online.” Yet while many images that flow around us are visually amplified (3D, IMAX) much of this amplification is dedicated to photographic representation. New technologies, in turn, are often focused on the intensification of visual verisimilitude (virtual and augmented reality). We are inundated with the banal (cat videos) and the horrific (atrocity imagery); we are flooded with a nonstop visual stream that I think of as the 24/7 movie. Perhaps, in part, the popularity of comics that Chute rightly celebrates is a reaction to our fatigue with certain aspects of this inundation.

This too is why Chute’s often lovely, sensitive discussions of individual expression in independent comics seem so right and true. Her ideas about the utopian promise of comics — and, by extension, popular culture — can feel overstated when she refers to the “democracy of forms and types of media” at conventions like Comic-Con (where big companies dominate) or in superhero movies (“Economically, it seems to work to everybody’s benefit”). Far more persuasive are her discussions of the artist’s hand — the shakiness of Aline Kominsky-Crumb’s line, the crosshatching of her husband, Robert, the rigorously controlled quality of Charles Burns’s drawings. It’s here that Chute finds “the grain of individual experience,” locating the touch of the human that reaches and sometimes flies off the page.

California has seceded from the United States and is suffering water and power shortages. A disruptive, autocratic president has decided to deport all immigrants. Two 20-somethings escape from Los Angeles, which has been under martial law, to help lead a resistance against all this turmoil.

This is the vision laid out in Calexit, a new comic book published by Black Mask Studios. Yet the series’s writer, Matt Pizzolo, said that far from a grim portrait of a country under siege, he was trying to send a “hopeful and optimistic” message about people and their own relationship to political power.

“It is not wallowing in dystopia,” Mr. Pizzolo said in a phone interview. “It is about people who are standing up. I hope the book has heart coming through the characters.”

Calexit is at the forefront of a range of comics and cartoon books reacting to the current political climate, a provocative example of artists continuing to reckon with the Trump presidency. Though trump-conservative.com aggregates many editorial cartoons in support of the president, a vast majority of these graphic works are left-leaning, with depictions that are allegorical and subversive, addressing immigration, class and the White House itself.

In Ms. Marvel, published by Marvel Comics, the heroine confronts a campaign to bring back “the real Jersey City,” which starts by making her Muslim family unwelcome. In Green Arrow, from DC Comics, the liberal hero is at odds with a fearmongering West Coast mayor whose philosophy is summarized as: “Capitalism is a meritocracy. If somebody is better off than you, it’s probably because they wanted it more.”

Resist!, an anthology of political comics, recently released its second issue. The first, with a print run of around 60,000 copies, was circulated at the women’s marches in January. “Sh*t My President Says,” in which Shannon Wheeler, a cartoonist for The New Yorker, illustrates the tweets of Donald J. Trump, will be published in August by Top Shelf. And in November, Fantagraphics Books will release “Economics in Wonderland,” a cartoon guide to “a political world gone mad and mean,” by Robert B. Reich, a former labor secretary under President Clinton.

Calexit, which is drawn by Amancay Nahuelpan, has sold out of its first-issue run of 25,000 copies, and a reprint will be forthcoming. In what will be a recurring feature, the back of each issue has interviews with people trying to enact change. Issue No. 1 includes Amanda Weaver, who is part of Reclaim Chicago, which is dedicated to ridding local government of corporate interests, and Bill Ayers, a Weathermen founder.

Mr. Pizzolo, who is based in Los Angeles, will also document the creation of Become the Government, his “super PAC” to support local progressive candidates who are new to politics and will be financed by his earnings from sales of the comic series.

How readers and retailers will welcome some of these projects is uncertain. “People look to comics for escapism,” said Mark Evanier, a comic-book writer and historian. When projects stray too much into the political arena, he added, the reaction is sometimes, “If I wanted this, I’d read the news.”

“Most comic purchases aren’t about politics, they’re just about how good the story is, but I do think there’s an increased sensitivity to the political content of comics on the part of fans,” said Milton Griepp, the chief executive of ICv2, an online trade publication that covers the comic-book industry.

The Divided States of Hysteria, written and drawn by Howard Chaykin, and published by Image comics, provoked a strong response from fans. It is a violent vision of the United States, after a coup d’état, bracing for a terrorist attack. Some of the comic’s depictions — an attack on a trans sex worker in the first issue last month; a cover showing the lynching and genital mutilation of a Pakistani man — set off debates about artistic freedom and responsibility, and censorship and social justice warriors. (So another day on the internet.)

But if fans want these types of stories, comics stores are likely to order them. “Retailers that I talk to evaluate their audience and stock what they think they’re going to buy, regardless of content,” Mr. Griepp said. “I was just talking to a retailer last week that told me he hated John Lewis’s politics but ordered March for his store.”

Mr. Griepp was referring to March, the graphic-novel trilogy by Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, about the civil rights movement and aimed at inspiring  young activists. (The co-author was Andrew Aydin.) Mr. Pizzolo is treading on similar ground. Message-driven comics are a comfortable fit for Mr. Pizzolo, who founded Black Mask Studios in 2012 with Steve Niles, a writer of horror novels and comics; and Brett Gurewitz, a musician and founder of Epitaph Records. The impetus was Occupy Comics, a comic-book project to raise money for the Occupy Wall Street movement.

“We could rely on the federal government in the past, but I think a lot of people no longer feel that way,” Mr. Pizzolo said. We “are inspired to be more directly involved in the political process than we have in the past,” he added. “We need to work in our communities and our regions constructively. We need to learn to work together and get over preconceptions about one another.”

Ta-Nehisi Coates, the author of “Between the World and Me” and one of the country’s best-known public intellectuals, announced Wednesday he would begin writing the Captain America title for Marvel Comics in July.

Mr. Coates, a longtime comics fan who began creating them a little more than two years ago, announced the news in The Atlantic, for which he is a national correspondent. He described his vision of the character and laid out his plans for addressing what he confessed he saw as an artistic challenge.

“Nothing should really scare a writer more than the moment when they are no longer scared,” he wrote. "I’m not convinced I can tell a great Captain America story — which is precisely why I want so bad to try.”

The writer has previously worked on Black Panther, reinvigorating the title two years before the movie based on the character became a blockbuster success. The comic sold briskly while in his hands, and one collection, Black Panther, Volume 1: A Nation Under Our Feet, was nominated for a Hugo Award in 2017. But Mr. Coates has not had unbridled success in comics: His spinoff series, Black Panther & the Crew, was canceled in May after it failed to sell as well as expected.

Mr. Coates, who is widely known for his reporting and commentary on race, brought his experience with nonfiction to bear as he was writing Black Panther, taking on politics and culture in the fictional African nation of Wakanda, where the series is set. He challenged the kingdom’s monarchical tradition, introduced an insurgency and questioned the Wakandan religion.

In contrast with Black Panther, Captain America is one of the oldest and best-known characters in the Marvel universe. He first appeared during World War II and is often seen as the ultimate patriot, a man dedicated to the ideals of his country and willing to fight for them no matter what.

But as Mr. Coates outlined in his announcement, Captain America, who was born Steve Rogers and is frequently referred to simply as Cap, often has an uneasy relationship with the American government. He is a more nuanced character than his film analogue, played by the actor Chris Evans, might suggest. For 15 months, starting in May 2016, the comic character was somehow the evil leader of Hydra, an organization reminiscent of the Nazis.

This could make the character an interesting match for Mr. Coates, who throughout his career has written about his complicated relationship with and views about patriotism, and has often been accused of being pessimistic about the United States’ future. In a 2016 profile of President Barack Obama, he wrote that what separated Mr. Obama from many African-Americans (including, it was implied, himself) was the ability to trust “white America.”

Mr. Coates will join a small number of black writers who have taken on the character, including Christopher Priest, who worked on the series Captain America and the Falcon in 2004 and 2005.

“Finding the right voice to tell the tales of Marvel’s beloved characters is never an easy task, but when it came time to hire the new hand to guide Captain America, we just knew it had to be Ta-Nehisi Coates,” Marvel’s chief editor, C. B. Cebulski, said in a statement. “After re-inventing the Black Panther for the modern era, Ta-Nehisi now brings his sharp scripting sensibilities to Steve Rogers and his new place in the Marvel Universe.”

In his Captain America announcement, Mr. Coates said writing the character, the embodiment of the optimism expressed in the American dream, would allow him to challenge himself.

“What is exciting here is not some didactic act of putting my words in Captain America’s head, but attempting to put Captain America’s words in my head,” he wrote. “What is exciting is the possibility of exploration, of avoiding the repetition of a voice I’ve tired of.”

Mr. Coates will work with the artists Leinil Yu, who will draw the interior panels, and Alex Ross, whose painted covers, reminiscent of Norman Rockwell, have made him a favorite of comics writers and fans. The first issue is set to be released July 4.