BEIJING — The trailer for “Doctor Strange” from Marvel Studios has ignited outrage against what some people call another example of Hollywood’s racially insensitive casting. It reveals that a Tibetan character from the comic book, the Ancient One, is played by Tilda Swinton, a white British actress.

It turns out that the filmmakers scrubbed the Tibetan origins of the character from the comic book altogether, in large part over fears of offending the Chinese government and people — and of losing access to one of the world’s most lucrative film markets, according to one insider account.

In an interview last week, C. Robert Cargill, a screenwriter, offered that as an explanation for why the Ancient One was no longer Tibetan.

The Tibetan issue is one of the thorniest involving China and other nations. The Chinese Communist Party and its army occupied Tibet in 1951, and Chinese leaders are well aware that many non-Chinese believe that Tibet should have independence or greater autonomy.

Marvel said in a statement that there was no problem with the casting of Ms. Swinton as the Ancient One since the character was written as a Celt in the film and is not Asian at all. Before Mr. Cargill’s explanation circulated online, some critics said studio executives and filmmakers must have assumed Asian actors had little drawing power and so cast Ms. Swinton.

In an interview on the pop culture show “Double Toasted,” Mr. Cargill said the decision to rid the character of its Tibetan roots was made by others working on the project, including the director, Scott Derrickson. It came down to anxieties over losing the China market, he said, if the portrayal of the Ancient One ended up stirring political sensitivities in China.

In response to an angry viewer’s question about the casting of Ms. Swinton, Mr. Cargill said: “The Ancient One was a racist stereotype who comes from a region of the world that is in a very weird political place. He originates from Tibet, so if you acknowledge that Tibet is a place and that he’s Tibetan, you risk alienating one billion people.”

He added that there was the risk of “the Chinese government going, ‘Hey, you know one of the biggest film-watching countries in the world? We’re not going to show your movie because you decided to get political.’ ”

Earlier in the interview, Mr. Cargill had acknowledged that the origin story of Dr. Strange in old Marvel comics does involve Tibet, and that his mentor was Tibetan. “He goes to a place in Tibet, the Ancient One teaches him magic, he becomes a sorcerer, then later he becomes the Sorcerer Supreme,” Mr. Cargill said.

The Chinese box office is the world’s second biggest, behind the United States, and Hollywood executives often alter films to avoid offending Chinese officials and to help their movies get shown in China. The Chinese government sets a strict limit on the number of foreign films shown in cinemas each year.

Mr. Cargill’s take on how Chinese officials and moviegoers might react to a Tibetan character was overly simplistic, though. The government and many Chinese people do not deny the existence of the cultural idea of Tibet or Tibetans. They just assert that China should rule the territory.

Mr. Cargill also said that because the original character of the Ancient One was a racist stereotype, the role would be hard to pull off with modern sensibilities. He added that if a Tibetan had been cast, it would result in the stereotypical narrative of a white hero, Dr. Stephen Strange, played by Benedict Cumberbatch, being indoctrinated into Eastern mysticism.

From the trailer, the film appears to retain some of the origin story’s Tibetan Buddhist flavor. There are shots of temples in what seems to be the Kathmandu Valley of Nepal. At one point, Mr. Cumberbatch’s hand turns Tibetan prayer wheels. Ms. Swinton’s character, though Celtic, appears to be training Dr. Strange in Nepal.

Mr. Cargill said some critics had suggested the filmmakers could have cast Michelle Yeoh as the Ancient One. Ms. Yeoh is an ethnic Chinese actress from Malaysia who is a martial arts icon and starred in “Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon.”

“If you are telling me you think it’s a good idea to cast a Chinese actress as a Tibetan character, you are out of your damn fool mind,” Mr. Cargill said.

Mr. Cargill also drew a parallel, saying that the only thornier situation he could envision was if Dr. Strange’s origin story had involved him going to Palestine in the 1930s and studying under a Palestinian mentor.

The Ancient One was a character who had “fallen into a weird place,” he said. “There’s a really, really ugly piece of history that we wish there was an easy solution to, and there wasn’t one.”

Mr. Cargill said Mr. Derrickson, the director, hoped that changing the gender would help offset bad choices that had to be made.

Mr. Derrickson, he said, reasoned that “there’s no real way to win this, so let’s use this as an opportunity to cast an amazing actress in a male role.”

“And sure enough, there’s not a lot of talk about, ‘Oh man, they took away the job from a guy and gave it to a woman.’ Everybody kind of decides to pat us on the back for that and then decides to scold us for her not being Tibetan.”

Ms. Swinton, in an interview with Den of Geek, confirmed that the change to the character had been made early in the process.

“The script that I was presented with did not feature an Asian man for me to play, so that was never a question when I was being asked to do it,” she said.

A Marvel press officer defended the casting in a statement, saying that “Marvel has a very strong record of diversity in its casting of films and regularly departs from stereotypes and source material.”

“The Ancient One is a title that is not exclusively held by any one character, but rather a moniker passed down through time, and in this particular film the embodiment is Celtic,” the company said. “We are very proud to have the enormously talented Tilda Swinton portray this unique and complex character alongside our richly diverse cast.”

Mr. Cargill had a more sober take in the interview on “Double Toasted.” He likened the cultural issue involving the Ancient One to the Kobayashi Maru, a famous battle simulation game in the “Star Trek” universe that Starfleet Academy cadets must play during training. The game had been programmed so that all choices would lead to a loss.

“I could tell you why every single decision that involves the Ancient One is a bad one, and just like the Kobayashi Maru, it all comes down on which way you’re willing to lose,” Mr. Cargill said.

He neglected to mention that James T. Kirk, one of the main heroes of “Star Trek,” did beat the game with an unorthodox gambit.

Comic books are gaining two new villains on Wednesday, though they are both familiar faces.

Over at Marvel, the first issue of Steve Rogers: Captain America sheds new light on the hero’s past that has a great effect on his present. This issue, written by Nick Spencer and drawn by Jesus Saiz, reveals that Rogers’s mother was recruited by Hydra, one of Marvel’s terrorist groups. Flash forward to today and Captain America is suddenly doing some terrible things: pushing an ally out of a plane and, on the last page, proclaiming, “Hail Hydra.”

The countdown begins now as to how long Captain America will remain evil. For those keeping score at home, he died in 2007 and returned in 2009. He was also rapidly aged and lost his abilities in 2014, but was returned to pristine glory in March.

“While there’s a cynical feeling that everything goes back to normal in the end, if you look across all the stories we’ve published over the years, that’s not necessarily the case,” Tom Brevoort, Marvel’s executive editor and senior vice president of publishing, said. “Like any kind of ongoing soap opera, the trick is to put our characters through new and interesting vises and see what happens and what grows out of that. Only time will tell where this all shakes out.”

Over in the DC universe, the 80-page special Rebirth reveals Dr. Manhattan, one of the heroes in Watchmen, by Alan Moore and Dave Gibbons, as the puppet master behind some recent troubles. Rebirth is written by Geoff Johns and drawn by a cadre of the DC’s top artists (Phil Jimenez and Ivan Reis among them). The story addresses some of the shortcomings of the company’s 2011 reboot,  which made some characters younger, erased others and has generally made fans unhappy.

“I hope to inspire passion, create connection and see the DC universe and its readers and fans embrace hope and optimism like its heroes do,” Mr. Johns said. “The world needs it more than ever.”

The issue brings back one hero, hints at the return of others, re-establishes some relationships and lays the time and memory high jinks on Dr. Manhattan. This comes after the company published, in 2012, Before Watchmen, a series of prequels  to the seminal work.

At that time, Mr. Moore called the comics “completely shameless” and said, “As far as I know, there weren’t that many prequels or sequels to ‘Moby-Dick.’”