Q. In using Gmail, Chrome and Drive, I know I’ve sold my privacy to the god of convenience. Still, today Google wanted to tell me about “some new features” and prompted me to click my acceptance. I’m reluctant to click. What is this?

A. As you know — and as stated in its privacy policy — Google collects personal information about you from the free services you use, both to make its products more useful to you and also to send specific advertisements your way based on what it knows about you. While this collected information has been readily available for you to see in your Google Account settings, the company recently revamped those pages in the My Activity section, where you can see all your Google-related history in one long scroll.

Google has also added new controls for the types of advertisements you see around the web. The banner alerts and pop-up boxes announcing “Some new features for your Google Account” refer to these changes on how Google uses and organizes your collected information, and you are offered the option to turn them on for your account right there.

If you agree to the changes, you are basically allowing Google to use all of the information it has about you — gathered from computers and devices you use with your Google Account — to tailor the ads you see on Google pages, as well as on other sites you visit around the web. If you do not mind having your information collected so that sites can serve up targeted ads, opting into the new features gives you more control over what you do see.

For example, if you searched for a Rocket Raccoon T-shirt online to give as a gift to your Marvel Comics-loving friend and then constantly saw ads for that very Rocket Raccoon T-shirt following you around the web, you could click the close box on the ad to get rid of it there — and on all the other devices associated with your Google Account.

You control the types of ads you see by going to your account’s ad preferences page, which you can get to by clicking your account profile photo on your Gmail or other Google page, clicking My Account, signing in and then clicking Ads Settings.

If none of these “new features” appeal to you, you can also skip signing up for them and leave your Google Account settings as they are.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. — John Risher drove north on Route 29, a briefcase resting in the car’s back seat.

Through sunglasses, Risher, who is 106 years old, surveyed the highway, which sliced between trees of yellow, orange and red — and whose branches hung over the road, forming a tunnel of autumn colors.

A pickup truck was lumbering up ahead, and Risher was gaining on it. He downshifted a gear, revving his engine, and surged around the truck.

“The only time I pass someone is when they are really poking along,” Risher said to his nervous passenger.

A sharp left curve loomed. “Here’s where it gets tricky,” Risher said. Without braking, he navigated the turn. The passenger breathed deeply.

“I can’t take any naps on this road — not many straightaways,” Risher said.

About 50 miles later, Risher was lounging in a Virginia Cavaliers lawn chair in the parking lot of Scott Stadium in Charlottesville, eating fried chicken with the skin peeled off. Rock music played, and fans clad in orange and navy tossed footballs and drank beer on a recent Saturday afternoon.

Risher, who wore a dark blue Virginia cap and Windbreaker, khakis, and white sneakers, tailgated with friends for a while. Then he took his briefcase and walked up a ramp leading into the arena, to a carpeted lounge, where, one by one, people greeted him.

“Don’t ever become 106,” he muttered. “They won’t leave you alone.”

He entered an open-air press box and set the contents of his briefcase on a table: some papers and a big, clunky calculator.

Risher is a member of Virginia’s football statistics crew, an unpaid position he has held for over half a century.

In a digital age, he still records statistics the old-fashioned way — with pen and paper — as a backup in case technology fails.

But his connection to Virginia football goes beyond numbers — the athletic program has been his “lifeblood,” as one friend of Risher’s puts it — and long precedes his involvement with the statistics crew. He is Virginia’s oldest living former player, having participated in one game in 1931. And he’s been watching Virginia football since 1919.

Risher, who has lively, light blue eyes and a full head of silver hair, recalls dates, names, addresses and scores dating back nearly 100 years. He speaks with a Virginia accent, and his voice is inflected with humor, as if a punch line is always imminent. He maintains eye contact. He plays jokes on friends, often grumpily acting confused — before flashing a knowing and mischievous smile.

He is also a physical marvel: He played tennis until he was 85, and he mowed his lawn until he was 105. At his 106th birthday party, he balanced a spoon on his nose.

He easily passed his most recent eye exam at the Department of Motor Vehicles, he said, back when he was 100. His driver’s license will expire when he is 108. (“He drives like a teenager — a little too fast,” his friend Parker Lee said.) Risher still occasionally drives to games from his home in Lynchburg, over an hour away.

Risher has a pacemaker and hearing aids, but he walks without assistance and has had almost no serious health problems.

“I’m deaf as a post,” Risher recently said, “but I can see 20/20 with these glasses, and I still look at the girls. They don’t look at me, though. That’s the problem.”

A caped, sword-bearing horseman rode across the field as Virginia and North Carolina prepared for a game known as the South’s Oldest Rivalry. The crowd roared. In his chair at midfield, Risher leaned slightly forward over a homemade chart, readying two pens: one black, for Virginia; one red, for the visitors.

Virginia had the ball first. Risher alternated his focus between the field and his spreadsheet, writing numerals in boxes based on the spot of each play. Nearby stood two statisticians wearing headsets — 20 and 32 years old — who watched the action through binoculars and verbally relayed information to a statistician on a laptop.

Virginia punted. Risher looked for where the returner caught the ball, then punched numbers into his calculator, tabulating the punt’s distance. He held up the calculator for a colleague, who offered a thumbs-up, indicating that Risher was accurate. Risher, satisfied, returned to his chart.

North Carolina scored first, a 4-yard touchdown run late in the opening quarter. Consulting his drive chart, Risher pulled out a different form, on which he wrote the drive’s distance, the time elapsed and the number of plays. He passed it to his left. It was placed atop a pile, destined for the archives.

Risher was born in Carnegie, Pa., on May 11, 1910. His family moved to a farm outside Charlottesville. As a boy, he contracted polio and was bedridden for months, but he recovered. He sometimes traveled to school by horse and buggy.

His mother moved the family into Charlottesville in 1919 after Risher’s father died. They lived near the university, and Risher became interested in football.

Risher discovered an apartment building on a hill above Lambeth Field, Virginia’s old columned, amphitheater-style stadium. He watched games from a window on the building’s top floor.

In 1920, Risher sold Coca-Cola and other concessions inside the stadium. “Peanuts, chewing gum and candy!” he would shout.

He remembers the day later in the ’20s when President Calvin Coolidge attended a game at Lambeth Field. He also recalls driving his family’s Ford Model T to road games.

Risher played offensive end in high school. At Virginia, he studied chemistry and became a football equipment manager, back when players wore leather helmets.

Somehow, word reached Virginia’s coach that Risher was an adept pass catcher. In the 1931 season opener at Lambeth Field, when teammates started dropping with injuries, Risher was thrust into the game. (Virginia beat Roanoke, 18-0, its only win that season.) Risher injured his ankle in practice the next week and returned to the managers’ squad.

He graduated in 1932 and received his medical degree from Virginia in ’36. During World War II, he joined the Army Corps of Engineers, serving in Greenland and Central America, and later the Office of Strategic Services, a precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency, serving in the China-Burma-India theater.

In 1950, he settled with his wife and young daughter in Lynchburg, a city on the James River. They moved into a house on the top of a hill with a wood exterior and a magnolia tree in the front yard.

Risher opened up a practice as an ear, nose and throat specialist. “He was as busy as any doctor could have been,” said Max Feinman, 88, whose own ear, nose and throat practice was in Risher’s office building.

Shirley Snidow, 62, whose tonsils Risher removed when she was about 8, said that Risher had a special ability to put frightened children at ease, like a “sixth sense.”

“He was so kind and gentle; you never knew anything was wrong with you,” she said.

One day, a new patient, Paul Wisman, entered Risher’s office with a sinus infection. Wisman noticed Risher’s diploma on the wall, and they started discussing Virginia sports.

In 1956, Wisman began keeping football statistics in Virginia’s press box. Risher asked if he could volunteer — and in 1963, he joined the crew.

Back then, press boxes sounded with clicking typewriters. Risher, dressed in a sport coat and Virginia-themed tie, tracked offensive plays, using scratch paper and doing math in his head. (He eventually devised the more efficient system he employs today.)

Risher recalled statistical forms being run through a hand-cranked mimeograph, a stencil-based duplicating machine, for distribution to reporters. Final statistical reports at that time were usually sent by telegram to the N.C.A.A. via Western Union, according to Jim Wright, the N.C.A.A.’s former director of statistics.

When not attending road games, Risher listened on the radio and kept statistics at home.

In 1985, Risher retired from medicine. He drove to games in a white Cadillac with a “UVA WON” license plate. He and Wisman traveled to road games, sometimes with their wives.

Risher’s wife, Anne, had grown up in his neighborhood in Charlottesville. “Of all the girls I knew,” he said, “I never found anyone like her.” They shared a love of travel and explored the world, from Europe to Africa.

Back in Lynchburg, they drank a bourbon every night before supper. Risher bought some land and grew tomatoes. He played checkers with friends.

Around 2000, Anne developed Alzheimer’s disease. Risher took her on car rides and, “when the weather was right,” he said, on picnics in the country. In 2011, Anne died at home.

Risher and Wisman drove to games together and sat in the press box, side by side.

But their jobs had become less significant: Data was entered into a laptop equipped with advanced statistical software that formulated a live box score.

In 2015, Wisman died at age 89. At the funeral service, Risher sat with Wisman’s family.

This past summer, Risher moved out of his house, where he had lived since 1954, and into an assisted living home. A newspaper notice advertised an estate sale listing items that once filled Risher’s life: “Large lot of vintage records, UVA memorabilia, antique trains, 20th century stainless steel medical tools, and other treasures.”

Before this season, Risher approached Tom Fenstermaker, who oversees Virginia’s football game-day statistical operations.

“What I do now is so unimportant compared to what it used to be,” Risher told him. “I feel as if I’m in the way. I think I ought to quit.”

“You know,” Fenstermaker said, “when we get a little confused, I look over your shoulder and see what you’ve written.”

“You mean,” Risher asked, “you really use what I do?”

“Yeah!” Fenstermaker told him.

Risher felt better. Even if his role was minimal, maybe he still served a purpose.

Lately, Risher has been as visible around athletic events as ever. At a news conference introducing the new football coach, Bronco Mendenhall, Risher was there, dressed in a sport coat, sweater vest and tie, shaking Mendenhall’s hand.

He has been a mainstay at baseball and basketball games. He drives to Feinman’s house for road football games, which they watch on a big, flat-screen TV. Often, Risher brings buckets of fried chicken.

For most of his life, Risher ate healthfully, but, he said, “I figure at my age, I can take a few liberties.”

In particular, Risher likes grilled cheese sandwiches, chocolate milkshakes, Coca-Cola (“I’m not a Pepsi man,” he said), fried oysters, ice cream, hamburgers and rare roast beef.

Lee, his friend, said of Risher’s diet, “Lettuce, apple sauce — forget it.”

At home, Risher makes bacon and Eggo waffles, and he cooks bison burgers on a George Foreman grill. When he does not feel like doing dishes, he heads downstairs to the residence’s buffet or its restaurant.

In the common areas, it is impossible for him to appear anywhere without being approached or gushed over, a phenomenon Risher attributes solely to his age.

“I wish they’d quit talking about this age of mine,” Risher recently said. “I had trouble getting a date when I was 90. And when people know I’m 106, I don’t have a chance.”

He reads The Richmond Times-Dispatch daily, usually starting with the comics and the sports section. He has a computer, on which he checks email, stock information and Virginia sports news. Before bed, while tucked beneath a blue and orange Virginia blanket, he does the Jumble puzzle. Often, he awakens the next morning with it partially done, resting on his body.

Tom Perls, a professor at the Boston University School of Medicine who is an expert on people who live unusually long lives, upon learning about Risher, said that he “very much is fitting the mold” of an eventual super-centenarian — those who live to be 110 or older.

Perls, who has interviewed over 2,000 centenarians across the world, called Risher “the oldest driver I’ve ever heard of.” And he described Risher — a man who has reached 106 — as “easily one in a million.”

Until Risher shows signs of memory impairment or illness — neither of which appears to be happening — he is, Perls said, “virtually immortal.”

With Virginia trailing, 14-7, at halftime, Risher walked into the media lounge and ate a bowl of chocolate ice cream, slurping up every spoonful like soup.

“Ahh,” he said when he was finished. He wiped his mouth with a napkin and returned to the press box for the second half.

North Carolina took control. A 10-yard touchdown pass by the Tar Heels midway through the third quarter made the score 21-7.

To Risher’s left, where Wisman once sat, was Virginia’s other manual backup statistician: Daniel Buckley, a 20-year-old undergraduate student. After Virginia lost a fumble on its next possession, Risher slammed down his pen. He and Buckley shared a disgusted look. Risher leaned back into his chair and folded his arms, holding the pose.

In the fourth quarter, North Carolina connected on a 46-yard touchdown pass. The stands started emptying out. It was almost sundown, and the temperature was falling. Buckley yawned. Risher, meanwhile, remained focused on his chart until the final snap. Virginia lost, 35-14.

Risher placed his materials into his briefcase. “Will I see you next week?” he asked Buckley, referring to Virginia’s game against Louisville.

“Yep,” Buckley said.

Soon, Risher was back on the highway, two hands on the steering wheel. He looked content.

“They gave me a dish of ice cream at intermission — can you imagine that?” he said.

“You’re sure you’re O.K. driving at night?” his passenger asked.

“Oh, I don’t have any trouble,” Risher said. “And this car’s got good brakes. You can stop on a nickel. Don’t worry. We’ll make it.”

Risher was silent for a while, and then he said, “Just sitting here, I don’t feel like I’m 106.”

And he drove all the way home, stars flickering against a clear black sky.

With today’s multiplexes muscle-bound from too many superheroes, and TV frantic with the antic shuffle of tiny zombie feet, S.H.I.E.L.D. spymasters and more, it’s easy to forget there was a time when mainstream comic books were in genuine conversation with the broader culture, instead of being meekly strip-mined for profit by other media.

From its birth in the 1930s, the comic book, that bastard child of lurid pulps and newspaper strips, has become a kinetic and crowd-pleasing part of the give and take in a cultural stew that includes film and TV, pop music and bubble gum cards, radio and the news of the day. On the cover of Captain America No. 1, for example, which thumped onto newsstands in December 1940, Jack Kirby’s dynamic, star-spangled Cap is shown clocking a cartoonish Hitler — one full year before the United States entered World War II.

Those conversations are apparent in a new, generously illustrated book from Taschen, “75 Years of Marvel: From the Golden Age to the Silver Screen,” written by Roy Thomas, a former Marvel editor and writer, and edited by Josh Baker.

Mr. Thomas, who also edits the comics history magazine Alter Ego, misses the days when funny books were more than livestock on the Hollywood farm. “There is a sense of loss because the tail is now wagging the dog,” he said in a recent telephone interview.

Still, he added: “Comic book characters were always franchises. But nobody cared about them.”

Here are a few multimedia yarns from the days when comic books were more than just fodder.

OPEN THE FLOODGATES Marvel’s founding publisher, Martin Goodman, never met a genre he couldn’t imitate and then inundate. In the 1950s, when Marvel was called Atlas, westerns and war sagas were Hollywood staples. So out on the dusty plains, his herd of titles included Kid Colt Outlaw and Two-Gun Kid, Ringo Kid and Rawhide Kid — and, oh, Black Rider and Gunsmoke Western. On the war front there was Navy Action, Navy Tales and Navy Combat, Combat, Battlefield and Battle Action, and on the all-alliteration squadron Combat Casey and Devil-Dog Dugan.

OOOH, SURFER BOY Comics have always been open to youth trends, and surf culture was one of the most popular of the 1960s — in music, in movies, and as a sports lifestyle. So it was no big shock when the Silver Surfer zipped and zoomed out of the pages of Stan Lee and Jack Kirby’s “Fantastic Four” in 1965. But instead of catching a wave, Marvel’s Surfer mastered the breakers and swells of the cosmos.

SUBMITTED FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION, STEVE DITKO He’s best known as the co-creator, with Mr. Lee, of the Amazing Spider-Man and Dr. Strange, but Steve Ditko’s deepest gift may have been as an artist of horror and fantasy. Mr. Lee thought enough of his work that in 1961 and ’62 he gave Mr. Ditko free rein in Amazing Adult Fantasy — “The Magazine That Respects Your Intelligence!” — in a sense going toe to toe with Rod Serling’s popular TV show, “The Twilight Zone.” Mr. Ditko filled Amazing Nos. 7 to 14 with claustrophobic fables like “Why Won’t They Believe Me?” and “The Man Who Captured Death,” twist-ending tales of menace and Cold War paranoia. The all-Ditko experiment ended — sales were abysmal — at issue No. 15, with the comic renamed Amazing Fantasy and featuring the debut of Spider-Man. How’s that for an O. Henry ending?

EVEN LICHTENSTEIN RIPPED HIM OFF One of the best-known paintings by the Pop artist Roy Lichtenstein is “Image Duplicator” (circa 1963), a reworking of a Kirby drawing (uncredited) of the X-Men archvillain Magneto. The cartoonist Art Spiegelman once said, “Lichtenstein did no more or less for comics than Andy Warhol did for soup.” Marvel, however, did exact a smidgen of revenge. For a few months in 1965, it called its comics Marvel Pop Art Productions.

SHELLEY TO KARLOFF TO KIRBY You have to knock around the byways of popular culture for nearly 150 years to get from Mary Shelley’s 1818 novel, “Frankenstein,” to the debut of Lee and Kirby’s The Incredible Hulk in 1962. Shelley provided the raw material for the 1931 movie and its Boris Karloff monster, which, as made up by Jack Pierce, heavily influenced the Hulk’s look: same broad, brutish forehead; same proto-Beatles haircut.

PRESENTING THE AMAZING ... GORGO?!? Fifty years ago, licensing a Hollywood project to a comics company was the height of multiplatform marketing savvy. So the producers of “Gorgo” (1961) were thrilled to let Charlton Comics in on their reptilian bonanza. “Gorgo” was a poor man’s “Godzilla,” but what interests us here is that Mr. Ditko, ever the hustling freelancer, sometimes drew Gorgo for Charlton — even as he worked on Spider-Man and Dr. Strange for Marvel. (All of Mr. Ditko’s work on Gorgo can be seen in “Ditko Monsters: Gorgo!,” published last year by Yoe Books.) And it can be argued that Mr. Ditko brought at least a scrap of Gorgo’s Grade B DNA to the early Spider-Man: Issue No. 6 features the Lizard, who looks suspiciously like a scaled-down version of our boy Gorgo.

LIVE FROM NEW YORK! IT’S THE HULK! In another vignette from the antediluvian days of cross-marketing, the cast of “Saturday Night Live” appeared in “Marvel Team-Up” No. 74 in 1978, while an “S.N.L.” sketch in early 1979 about a superhero party included Marvel characters like the Thing and Spider-Man. John Belushi can’t hide his glee in playing the Hulk as a rude and rowdy party animal (certainly my favorite incarnation ever of ol’ Greenskin), and Garrett Morris was a perfectly sheepish Ant-Man. (“Check this guy out! He’s got the strength of a human!”) The moral of that sketch: Never use the bathroom after the Hulk has.

Like a lot of people last weekend, I spent some time catching up with “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice.”

When it was over, I, too, was overcome with the urge to brood, mope and cultivate stubble I could ponderously stroke while asking, “What’s the most ridiculous thing about this movie?”

Maybe it’s that a fight between Batman and Superman is fundamentally illogical. (Uh, he’s super, man.) Maybe it’s that the fights are treated with onerous seriousness by real scientists, journalists, cable-news bigmouths and sitting senators. (You, Patrick Leahy? Again?) Maybe it’s that Shostakovich fugue on the soundtrack — Shostakovich! Or maybe it’s the persecution and martyring and pietà-cradling and resurrection done to, and by, a certain Man of Steel — and just in time for Easter weekend!

Yes, all that. But what’s really most ridiculous about “Batman v Superman” is its lugubrious solemnity and generic philosophizing. The movie is debating moral absolutism. It’s trying to locate the line between superheroism and nihilism, between virtue and vice, between being good and being a psycho. But those lines were found in early February. They ran straight through “Deadpool,” the scuzziest of this recent rash of comic-book adaptations and one of the year’s most popular films.

Where “Batman v Superman” weighs a desperate ton, “Deadpool” mocks that weight. Its opening credits announce, for instance, that it was directed by “an Overpaid Tool,” which the finished product does little to dispute. In Ryan Reynolds, it has a leading man playing a salty mercenary whose face, body and vanity are so badly disfigured that his costume disguises both who and what he thinks he is: ugly. It’s a get-up that lands somewhere between Spider-Man and the Gimp’s S-and-M outfit in “Pulp Fiction.” But where brooding over misfortune typifies this world, Deadpool prattles through action sequences. He prances.

Ben Affleck’s Bruce Wayne tinkers over state-of-the-art gadgetry with his manservant Alfred (Jeremy Irons), while Deadpool and his roommate — a blind black woman (Leslie Uggams) — trade insults and commiserate over the shoddiness of Ikea furniture. This is to say that “Deadpool” is the most insolent example of where the comic-book movie has been headed: anti-serious, acutely aware of its genre’s clichés, arguably satirical, increasingly repulsed by self-consecration and committed to fun.

“Batman v Superman” is the sort of movie “Deadpool” is pantsing. So is a series like the “X-Men,” of which “Deadpool” is a spiked offshoot. A great deal of “Batman” revolves around the moral propriety of a great, big public statue of Superman that wouldn’t be out of place on the cover of an Ayn Rand novel. You want to commend this movie’s stabs at thoughtfulness. But it’s stabbing with a spork. At some point you have to laugh.

Envy of Superman’s Christ-ness so consumes Mr. Affleck’s Batman that he’s dreaming in messiah complexes. Awake (but scarcely alive), he’s so confused: Does he want to be Jesus or Pontius Pilate? Decisions. Our two heroes lock eyes, make threats and throw each other around. (Henry Cavill plays Superman and Clark Kent in the way oak can play a chair.) The exchange of blows might have imparted a homoerotic charge. But this movie is: So. Angry. Under the professional-wrestling circumstances, that “v” in the title just looks like somebody decapitated a heart.

To sit through this — and there’s a lot to sit through (Senate hearings, newsroom slapstick, Scoot McNairy doing Lieutenant Dan from “Forrest Gump”) — is to see both rage and piety hit a wall. “Batman v Superman” features the latest in a handful of live-action incarnations of Batman since 1989 and Superman since 1978. Putting Gotham City across the river from Metropolis just combines two sites of “been there done that.” Insisting on the holiness of it all lands in the tiny crack between “duh” and “you just told me this.”

The director is Zack Snyder, the maker of “300,” “Watchmen,” “Sucker Punch,” and “Man of Steel.” Piety is the only mode he’s got. It’s the only mode most of these comic-book movies have had: suffering, oppression, misunderstanding, apocalypse. For a decade and a half, from the first wave of “X-Men” movies to Christopher Nolan’s “Dark Knight” trilogy, terroristic disaster is now the ultimate signifier of seriousness.

The quest for topical immediacy turns queasy fast. Fifteen years ago, people talked about the Sept. 11 attacks as something that seemed out of the movies. Now that day culminates in movies, over and over, until you’re appalled or inured — which is, of course, appalling.

We’ve seen the movies attempt to refract the world as the great comic books do, but often without their un-self-conscious power and with a sense of burden. The “Avengers” series, for instance, has to top not only its spinoffs but also itself.

Directors as different as Jon Favreau (the first two “Iron Man” movies), Shane Black (the last one) and Kenneth Branagh (“Thor”) have tried to install levity and classicism. The “Avengers” movies, including spinoffs built around Captain America, dramatize the country’s civil-liberty and national-security skirmishes. They also bury those political fights to wage a war whose visual language evokes real-world destruction in a way that cheapens the extant impact of its “source material.”

So burden, in these movies, is often all you feel. The burden has been lucrative, it’s true. So “if ain’t broke …” and all of that. But the genre’s rhythms and tropes, its politics, allegories and story arcs have become so familiar — Hark: Here’s a character at the very end of a movie, staring into the distance, speaking to another character about how they’ll have to get together and do this again, in a sequel — that you have to laugh at that, too.

And the movies also started laughing. In the summer of 2014, while “Batman v Superman” was in production at Warner Bros., Marvel and Disney opened “Guardians of the Galaxy.” Officially, it hailed from the Marvel universe, and its ragtag-crew-commits-a-caper-in-outer-space plot keeps its tongue in the source material’s cheek. But it was closer to “Star Wars” and “Indiana Jones” than “Captain America.”

The distance between “Guardians” and the average Marvel movie captured the spirit of life and lawlessness. It was more concerned with pop moviemaking than with burnishing the larger Marvel brand, per se. (At the end of the day, Marvel still used the movie to whet appetites for more “Avengers”-adjacency. But it maintained the illusion of independence.)

A year later came “Ant-Man,” a happy little comedy that no one seemed to want but lots of people were glad they saw. It, too, came from Marvel but had far more in common with “Honey, I Shrunk the Kids” and late ’80s, early ’90s contraptions from Amblin Entertainment, which, at the time, was bringing you stuff like “Gremlins 2” and “Arachnophobia.” The surprise of “Ant-Man” was it had nothing on it shoulders, no chips, no boulders, no wings. It’s another “Avengers” satellite but one that seems to run into the mother ship by accident. What entertained me wasn’t fealty to its source but the pleasure its makers took in creating and sustaining lightness.

But nothing is laughing harder or louder or more obnoxiously at the state of the superhero movie than “Deadpool.” It is nothingness. It believes in violence, but that’s about all it believes in: slashing and stabbing and shooting and — with Mr. Reynolds splashing figurative vinegar in the title role — sarcasm. And the nihilism is not without its charms.

These self-conscious comedies — “Guardians of the Galaxy,” “Ant-Man,” “Deadpool” — seem as if they’ve sprung from the comic-book film’s need to self-preserve, self-regenerate and self-mythologize, while forgoing weirdness and ingenuity and glee.

They are almost a fun-house mirror of the presidential election. These insurgent movies rail against establishment pictures, inasmuch as a major studio movie can be insurgent. (And by “Deadpool” standards, the money isn’t all that: “Deadpool” cost a reported $58 million to make, versus $250 million for “Batman v Superman” and the most recent “Avengers” movie.) In both politics and at the megaplex, disgust with the same old, same old has produced an appetite for change.

Deadpool spends his movie being nagged into shedding his amorality by joining the dysfunctional but unimpeachably moral X-Men, which, having inspired at least two generations of films, counts as an establishment. Their primary representative here is the steel-skinned (and generally underused) Russian giant Colossus, whose stern earnestness Deadpool joyously mocks. In the manner of a certain billionaire Republican candidate, Deadpool thinks those guys are losers.

“Batman v Superman” has grossed well more than a half-billion dollars worldwide, but even fans are grousing. We’re now at a point where these movies are happening to us. Studios make, we go. Our relationship is almost reflexive, like breathing — or belching.

The movie insurgency looked to be a Marvel-only outbreak. But DC Comics, Batman and Superman’s home, is scheduled to release its own allergic reaction later this year with “The Suicide Squad,” which stars Will Smith leading a bunch of jailbird supervillains and may as well be called “Dawn of Injustice.”

Obviously, the studios get to have it both ways, talking out of both sides of their mouths. Ambien-like tradition, coked-up nihilism: They’re going to the bank, either way. It’s big-tent blockbustering. But in the theaters themselves, something has changed. We’re now laughing with the self-consciousness, lunacy and happy incompetence that just a few years ago in, say, those “Ghost Rider” movies, starring a fully committed Nicolas Cage, we were laughing at. Time will tell whether this is signal or noise. But for now, the vulgar, cheap-to-finance “Deadpool” has been so intensely popular, that he should be running for president in the sequel.