Bernie Wrightson, a widely admired comic book artist who was known for his lush, intricate, otherworldly visions of horror and who was one of the creators of the popular DC Comics character Swamp Thing, died on March 18 in Austin, Tex. He was 68.

His death, at St. David’s South Austin Medical Center, was announced by his wife, Liz Wrightson, on Mr. Wrightson’s website. The cause was brain cancer, which had been diagnosed in 2014.

Besides his comic book work, Mr. Wrightson did illustrations for horror magazines and novels, including Mary Shelley’s 1818 classic, “Frankenstein,” and several by Stephen King. He also contributed character designs for films, including creatures, aliens and ghouls for “The Mist,” “Galaxy Quest” and the original “Ghostbusters.”

But his most famous creation was Swamp Thing, who first appeared in an issue of House of Secrets in 1971. The character was a tragic figure: an early-20th-century man transformed by a chemical explosion, unable to communicate to his wife that her new suitor was a murderer.

Swamp Thing, created with the writer Len Wein, was promoted to his own series in 1972, which contemporized his origin, set up his home base as Louisiana and introduced his love interest, Abigail Arcane. The character reached new levels of acclaim in the 1980s under the authorship of Alan Moore.

One of Mr. Wrightson’s most personal works was an adaptation in 1983 of “Frankenstein” for Marvel Comics, a project to which he devoted seven years. “He considered his Frankenstein illustrations to be his magnum opus,” his wife said in an email.

The horror website Bloody Disgusting called Mr. Wrightson’s black-and-white “Frankenstein” illustrations an “exquisitely detailed and extravagant vision” rendered in “a beautifully distinguished period style of art.”

The drawings, which recall the precise pen-and-ink work of the early-20th-century artist Franklin Booth, are stunning in their obsessive attention to minutiae. In one double-page spread, the monster — with throbbing neck and muscled forearms — confronts his maker in a laboratory so bountiful with detailed paraphernalia that it could be a hoarder’s fantasia.

“They are amazing pieces of work,” said Louise Simonson, a veteran comic book writer and editor. “He was such a perfectionist. If something didn’t come out quite right, he’d just toss it aside and start a new page.”

Bernard Albert Wrightson was born in Dundalk, Md., on Oct. 27, 1948, and learned his craft from studying comics and from correspondence courses.

His talent seemed fully realized from the beginning, said Ms. Simonson, who met him in New York City around 1967. “He brought into town this really great short story, ‘Uncle Bill’s Barrel,’ ” she said. “You could just look at it and tell he was going somewhere.”

“The Man Who Murdered Himself,” his first published work, appeared in House of Mystery, from DC, in 1969. Two years later, Ms. Simonson served as a model for Mr. Wrightson for the cover of Swamp Thing’s first appearance. (She is the woman being spied on by the boggy creature.)

Since then, Swamp Thing has starred in feature films, in 1982 and 1989, and a USA Network television series, from 1990 to 1993. A less murky, more child-friendly version of the character is voiced by Mark Hamill in the animated series “Justice League Action,” which began last year. Swamp Thing appears in more familiar form in the R-rated “Justice League Dark,” a straight-to-video animated film from Warner Home Video that appeared on DVD and Blu-ray in February.

Mr. Wrightson’s formative years in comics were a time before Federal Express and the internet allowed artists to work globally. The comic book writer and artist Walter Simonson, Louise’s husband, who is perhaps best known for his work on Marvel’s Thor, said that one of the great joys of working then was running into fellow creators at the office.

During one encounter, Mr. Simonson recalled, he saw a full-page drawing of a werewolf by Mr. Wrightson, from Swamp Thing No. 4. “It was just an incredible shot,” he said. “You’d go back and juice yourself up and say ‘I have to get better,’ because Bernie was so far ahead of everyone else.”

In 1974, Mr. Wrightson began working at Warren Publishing, where his work, including original material and adaptations of stories by Edgar Allan Poe and H. P. Lovecraft, appeared in Creepy and Eerie magazines.

During this time, he experimented with different approaches to his black-and-white work: pen and ink, brush, ink wash and gray marker. The next year he formed a studio with fellow artists to pursue projects outside of comics, and he began producing prints, posters and calendars. He also created “The Monsters,” a coloring book.

Mr. Wrightson’s first marriage, to Michele Wrightson, ended in divorce. She died in 2015. In addition to Liz Wrightson, Mr. Wrightson is survived by two sons, John and Jeffrey, and a stepson, Thomas Adamson.

It might be easy to think that an artist who created such grim images would harbor a dark soul, but Mr. Wrightson has been remembered in tributes for his kindness. He was especially warm toward comic fans.

“Bernie loved attending conventions and seeing fans grow over the years, many eventually bringing their own children to meet him,” Ms. Wrightson wrote.

He was also known for his good humor, captured by the greeting on his Facebook page: “Welcome, and stay eerie!”

The letter “x” appears as a visual element throughout “Legion,” Noah Hawley’s new FX series, turning up in windowpanes and furniture designs, and most prominently in the letter “o” of its title.

It’s a nod to the mutant X-Gene that empowers the show’s lead character, David Haller (played by Dan Stevens), a man who, after years of being told he was schizophrenic, discovers that he possesses formidable telepathic abilities.

It’s also a reference to the X-Men, the long-running Marvel comics series about misfit mutant heroes and villains, which has spawned the Fox motion-picture franchise and 10 films since 2000.

“Legion,” which makes its debut on Wednesday, Feb. 8, has its roots in a lesser-known X-Men character and represents the first live-action television effort to come from the comics since the mid-1990s. But if die-hard fans are expecting to see familiar costumed characters and Wolverine popping his trademark adamantium claws in the early episodes, Lauren Shuler Donner, the longtime “X-Men” producer, has a message for them.

“Tough noogies,” Ms. Donner said. “It’s not that, and it’s not going to be that.”

For Mr. Hawley, the creator of “Fargo,” FX’s Emmy Award-winning adaptation of the Joel and Ethan Coen film, “Legion” comes less from a specific desire to tell a story about a comic-book superhero than one about memory, identity and perception.

The characters of “Legion,” Mr. Hawley said, “have been told there’s something wrong with them and that what they can do is bad — they have to find ways to redefine themselves and say, ‘My weakness is my strength.’”

“Legion” is different from the well-known shared-universe approach to storytelling seen in Fox’s “X-Men” movies, as well as Marvel’s films like “The Avengers” and its Netflix shows like “Daredevil” and “Jessica Jones,” where characters’ lives and adventures intersect.

Though “Legion” is made from the DNA of “X-Men,” it exists in a universe that looks and feels distinct from those movies and — at its outset, anyway — does not put its established characters and recognizable iconography in the foreground. There are no obvious heroes or villains and no clear quest for the main character beyond figuring out who he is.

“We want to be very, very different,” Ms. Donner said. “There’s no way that anybody would watch ‘Legion’ and go, ‘Ugh, I saw that already.’”

More than 20 years ago, Ms. Donner (who has also produced films like “St. Elmo’s Fire” and “Any Given Sunday”) optioned the rights for X-Men. That deal, she said, contained “the whole toy chest,” with more than 100 characters.

But in a cultural landscape relatively unaccustomed to superhero films, the first “X-Men,” released in 2000, kept its focus on core characters like Wolverine (Hugh Jackman), Professor X (Patrick Stewart) and Magneto (Ian McKellen).

There have since been two trilogies of “X-Men” movies, three Wolverine films (including “Logan,” this March) and “Deadpool” released by Fox — not to mention a superhero resurgence led by Marvel’s films and shows, DC’s new movies and its interconnected CW programs, among many others.

Mr. Hawley was ambivalent at first when asked if he was interested in doing his own X-Men series.

In a typical TV adaptation of a comic, Mr. Hawley said, “They say, ‘Let’s take Issues 113 through 120 and call that Season 1.’”

He added, “You can never really deliver the exact story that people read and loved, so you’re setting yourself up for disappointment.”

Though Ms. Donner and her colleagues approached Mr. Hawley with some specific X-pitches (they declined to describe them), Mr. Hawley said he instead wanted to tell “a more existential story — what is it really like to have these abilities?”

That led them to the character of Legion, introduced in the comics in the 1980s as the son of Professor X and a powerful mutant with a multiple-personality disorder.

The premise was grounded enough in the world of the X-Men, while focusing on a character who is never entirely sure of his perceptions of reality, allowing Mr. Hawley to establish a heightened, dreamlike aesthetic that recalls shows like “Twin Peaks” and “Hannibal.”

Mr. Stevens, a star of “Downton Abbey,” said he is often asked if he might play a superhero character — “When are you going to put on a cape and do a thing?” he said — and taking on a comic-book series without wearing tights or spandex felt oddly liberating.

The depiction on “Legion” of a character with a possible mental illness was unlike any Mr. Stevens said he had seen before. “People always assume that madness is, you’re in one mode that is normal, quote-unquote, and then everything else is craaaaazy,” he said, “and it’s all very neatly flagged.”

“I just don’t see it like that,” he said. “He has to be present for all the possible realities that are occurring around him.”

Not that Mr. Stevens could offer his co-stars (who include Rachel Keller, Aubrey Plaza and Jean Smart) deeper insight about Mr. Hawley’s recursive story line, which revisits and rewrites its own history.

“A lot of the other cast members were looking to me like, ‘You’ve been to the mountaintop — what did the prophet say?’” he said. “Particularly in those first few episodes, David’s not supposed to know what the hell is going on. I’m like, ‘I’m just David, let me do my thing.’”

Marvel, which is also a producer on “Legion,” acknowledged that it took a more abstract, elusive approach to storytelling than is seen on, say, its Netflix shows or ABC’s “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” but welcomed Mr. Hawley’s vision.

“Our name is on it, but we want all of our shows to have a different flavor to them,” said Jeph Loeb, Marvel’s head of television.

“Legion” also allows Mr. Hawley the flexibility to create his own characters.

Knowing, for example, that he would need a mutant who could take David back into his own memories, Mr. Hawley said, “You often get into trouble when you take an existing character and want to use it in an unorthodox way.

“Rather than search the X-Men canon to see if there was such a thing, I just invented a character that allowed me the freedom to do whatever I needed to do.”

Mr. Hawley was intentionally vague about whether “Legion” would ever connect directly with the “X-Men” movies.

He compared the show to his “Fargo” series, which only gradually introduced elements from the film, after viewers had seen several episodes focused on an original story. (Marvel’s Mr. Loeb said simply, “Stay tuned.”)

The Fox network has already ordered its own series pilot set in the world of X-Men’s mutants (written by Matt Nix, the creator of “Burn Notice,” and directed by Bryan Singer), and Marvel hopes to create more shows for FX.

Mr. Hawley said his own abilities are already taxed to their maximum. He is working in Calgary, Alberta, on a third season of “Fargo,” while starting to puzzle out what a second season of “Legion” might look like.

“I think you’re either wired for multitasking, or you’re not,” he said. “That said, I’m pushing the limits of it.”

He added, “If I had a superpower, it would be the ability to create more hours in the day.”

The Melbourne-born actor Chris Hemsworth, 33, will tell you that there is no better place in the world than his native Australia, and he wants everyone else to know this, too: Mr. Hemsworth, who is most famous for playing the Marvel Comics superhero Thor in the 2011 eponymous movie and who is reprising the role in this fall’s “Thor: Ragnarok,” is on a mission to promote his homeland through his role as global ambassador for Tourism Australia, the country’s official tourism organization.

Mr. Hemsworth is so attached to Australia that he moved back there three years ago from Los Angeles with his wife, the actress Elsa Pataky, and their three children, a daughter, India, 4, and twin boys, Sasha and Tristan, 2. Mr. Hemsworth was in New York City recently for a Tourism Australia event. Below are edited excerpts from a conversation with him.

Q. Why did you decide to move back to Australia?

A. I lived in L.A. for seven or eight years, but once I had kids, it got more difficult to get around with the paparazzi being there, and I wanted a more laid-back life for my family. Although I grew up mostly in Melbourne, we live in Byron Bay, a quiet town on the country’s east coast, which is one of my favorite spots on the planet. The beach is beautiful, and we wake up every day to views of the ocean in front of us, but there’s also a big farming community with lots of farmland and tropical rain forest. My wife and I went on a holiday there and fell in love with the area and chose to make it our home. Now, we have a chilled-out existence.

Has Melbourne changed since you lived there as a child?

I distinctly remember the city’s strong multicultural scene that I experienced as a kid, and that has only grown today. There’s such a diverse mixture of communities including Greek, Lebanese and Vietnamese, which means that the ethnic food is fantastic. The arts there are also rich.

Are there any specific spots in Melbourne that visitors should hit?

Definitely Flinders Lane, a street with lots of bars and restaurants that are great to hang out in. Bar hopping there is fun. And a meal at Matcha Mylkbar is a must. The restaurant serves only plant-based food and has one of the most inventive menus I have ever seen. I am not a vegan, but if I were, this is where I would go to eat.

How is Sydney different from Melbourne? 

It’s very similar when it comes to the incredible diversity and culture, but the weather is warmer. It’s good for beach bums, but then again, much of Australia is.

Can you suggest the ideal itinerary for a first-time visitor to Australia?

If you’re coming from America, the journey to Australia is long, and you’ll need a few weeks. I recommend doing a big circle around the country. Start in Melbourne, go to Sydney and then drive to Byron Bay and other coastal towns. You’ll see a thick, rugged coastline and a tropical atmosphere. Then, go up to the Northern Territory, where I also lived as a child, for another world cultural experience. There are Aboriginal communities there, and you can see traditional dance and ceremonies and also see wildlife like buffalo and crocodiles. Then, go to the west, where you have great surfing and wineries.

I think the hardest part of a trip to Australia is leaving. Besides the sights, the people are also a draw. They are so welcoming.

If travelers to Australia bought one souvenir, what should it be?

Tim Tams. They are incredibly wonderful chocolate biscuits.

Prepare for the Academy Awards ceremony by catching up on two nominees that are now available to stream online: “Manchester by the Sea” and “Nocturnal Animals.” Or revisit nominees of the past with “The Imitation Game” and “Catch Me if You Can” on TV. 

MANCHESTER BY THE SEA (2016) on iTunes and Amazon. The third time may be the charm for Kenneth Lonergan, the playwright and filmmaker who earned six Oscar nominations for this emotionally rich, if exhausting, drama. His debut in 2000, “You Can Count on Me,” received nods for its screenwriting and the performance by Laura Linney. “Margaret” (2011), a masterpiece that languished for years in postproduction, received only a modest theatrical release. But this film — which stars Casey Affleck as a janitor who finds himself the guardian of his teenage nephew, played by Lucas Hedges — has been a critical darling since its premiere at Sundance Film Festival last year. “‘Manchester by the Sea’ is a finely shaded portrait, a study in individual misery set in a place that is observed with care and affection,” A. O. Scott wrote in The New York Times. “Mr. Affleck and Mr. Hedges are exceptional, but the rest of the large cast is nearly as fine.”

NOCTURNAL ANIMALS (2016) on iTunes and Amazon. Tom Ford’s second foray into filmmaking, after his beautiful and dreamy debut in 2011 with “A Single Man,” has received a nomination for Michael Shannon’s supporting performance. (Amy Adams and Jake Gyllenhaal star in the movie.) “Joan Didion wrote that ‘we tell ourselves stories in order to live.’ Sometimes, though, we tell stories to kill, to stick a stiletto in and watch the blood drain,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. “That’s the moral of ‘Nocturnal Animals,’ a harsh cautionary tale about love, vengeance and the divide between life and art, that shadowy space in which real people are turned into fictional characters and old hurts made into narrative grist.”

THE IMITATION GAME (2014) 7 p.m. on TMC. This biopic, which starred Benedict Cumberbatch as the pioneering computer scientist Alan Turing, received eight Oscar nominations, and took home one for Graham Moore’s screenplay. A. O. Scott called it a “highly conventional movie about a profoundly unusual man” in The Times. Still, he added, “This is not entirely a bad thing.”

CATCH ME IF YOU CAN (2002) 8 p.m. on HBO. Steven Spielberg’s satirical caper — the true story of Frank Abagnale’s prolific check-fraud and con-man crimes — earned two Oscar nods. “‘Catch Me’ is the most charming of Mr. Spielberg’s mature films, because it is so relaxed,” Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. “Instead of trying to conjure fairy-tale magic, wring tears or insinuate a message, it is happy just to be its delicious, genially sophisticated self.”

LEGION 10 p.m. on FX. The Marvel Comics universe continues its invasion of screens big and small with this new series inspired by “X-Men” films. Expect to see some familiar faces, like Dan Stevens (“Downton Abbey”) or Rachel Keller (“Fargo”).

Image Comics, which will celebrate 25 years as a comic book publisher next year, is giving its fans a little gift.

The February issues of The Walking Dead, Invincible and Outcast, each written by Robert Kirkman, will cost 25 cents. The stories in those issues will be a good jumping on point for readers: The Walking Dead No. 163, with art by Charlie Adlard, follows the conclusion of the Whisperer War. (Enough said, to avoid potentially spoiling future seasons of “The Walking Dead” TV series.)

Invincible No. 133, drawn by Ryan Ottley, begins “The End of All Things,” a 12-part story that will conclude the superhero series. Outcast No. 25, with art by Paul Azaceta, will introduce characters to the series about demonic possession.

The varied genres are a hallmark of today’s Image Comics, which was formed in 1992 by several popular creators working for Marvel and DC Comics. Their goal was to control their own characters — creatively and financially. The company has had its ups and downs,  but it has become a celebrated hub for creator-owned comics.

Mr. Kirkman became a partner in 2008 and noted the amount of freedom offered by the company. “If I wanted to kill Invincible, I wouldn’t have to get clearance,” he said. “At the end of the day, the decisions fall on me and my creative team.”

This week on “Legion,” the mystery of “Legion” was solved by its perpetrators: the makers of “Legion.” Showrunner Noah Hawley and company have spent the series’s first season playing (literal) mind games with the story of David Haller, their psychic protagonist. Flashbacks, flash-forwards, dizzying montage, psychedelic trips into the astral plane, alternate realities, dream states, visions, hallucinations, suppressed memories, unsuppressed memories, narrative gaps, narrative repetition, pseudo-demonic possession — Hawley’s team of writers and directors have used every filmmaking and writing trick in the book to turn David’s mind into a fun house mirror maze. The challenge, for characters and viewers alike, was to find our collective way through.

Then along comes “David,” a doppelgänger of the real deal who represents the tormented telepath’s rational mind and speaks in an English accent. (“And you’re … British?” David asks; “Like I said, I’m your rational mind,” David’s double replies.) This cool customer — whose accent is closer to those of both the actor Dan Stevens and a certain mutant leader played by Patrick Stewart — guides his counterpart out of the prison of his own mind and into a gigantic classroom.

There, with a series of animated chalk illustrations they unravel David’s entire back story: He is the secret son of a powerful psychic (Stewart, we’re looking in your direction, especially given the quick shot of what appears to be Professor X’s wheelchair) who defeated an evil telepath named Amahl Farouk in mental combat, then gave the infant David up for adoption to protect him from Farouk’s vengeful disembodied consciousness. This so-called Shadow King nevertheless found David and has fed off his power like a parasite ever since, driving his host mad in the process.

Fortunately for David, diagnosis is nine-tenths of the cure. Now that he knows the source of his sickness, he’s able to shake it off and break through the barriers of his mind. With a little help from his mutant friends, he shuts down the hospital hallucination they’ve all been experiencing, seizes control of his own body, subdues the Shadow King, stops the bullets fired at him and Syd mid-flight and lives to fight government mutant-hunters another day. Simple, really!

No, seriously. The real secret of “Legion” is that it is a simple story, when all is said and done. Unlike, say, “Westworld,” none of the show’s countless Easter eggs, deliberate details and plot-twist trickery are essential to understanding the story. They’re aesthetic elements, not narrative ones; they exist not to convert the show into a puzzle-box but to make it an objet d’art, successfully or not. The simplicity of David’s origin and of his nemesis, as revealed in this episode, should make that clear. (Even a passing knowledge of the Marvel comics upon which the show is based — in which the writer Chris Claremont established the founder of the X-Men, Professor Charles Xavier, as David’s father and cocreated Farouk as one of their most powerful enemies — would have made it clear to a sizable chunk of the audience already.)

But while this simplicity allows “Legion” to cut through the Gordian knot of needlessly byzantine plotting that has plagued other genre shows of recent vintage, the blade is double-edged. Lacking narrative necessity, the show’s stylistic flourishes are free to sink or swim on their own. By that standard, they too often hit bottom.

The climax of tonight’s episode is a case in point. It’s an all-roads-converge kind of deal, in which Syd and Kerry’s battle with Farouk’s alter ego Lenny in the hospital simulation; Cary, Melanie and Oliver’s struggle to shield Syd’s and David’s bodies from the bullets in the time-frozen real world; and David’s attempt to psychically shatter the doors of his mind-prison all sync up successfully at the last second, saving their skins and stopping the bad guys simultaneously.

But all that action should be enough to stand on its own without the needlessly cutesy context the filmmakers provide. What is gained by having the fight play out like a silent movie, shot in black and white with dialogue printed as intertitles and Lenny gussied up in Charlie Chaplin’s Little Tramp meets Johnny Depp’s Edward Scissorhands drag? Why is the musical accompaniment an EDM version of Ravel’s “Boléro”? Irony has its place in the frequently too portentous superhero subgenre, but here it undercuts the tension and terror without providing much compensatory value.

This being “Legion,” the homages to motion picture history don’t stop there. The glasses Syd uses to see the black-and-white reality beneath the colorful illusion the show’s antagonist created are straight out of John Carpenter’s influential work of Reagan-era sci-fi agitprop, “They Live.” When Lenny-Farouk tires of the Eye, she uses her telekinetic powers to bend his still living body into a crumpled husk — a striking visual, but reminiscent of both the body-horror transformations of Carpenter’s “The Thing” and the horrific fate of the desiccated men in Jonathan Glazer’s “Under the Skin.”

David saves the day by catching bullets in his hand, in a move reminiscent of both Neo in “The Matrix” and of the ur-superhero, Superman himself. (After all, he is faster than a speeding bullet.) And when the evil forces of Division 3 close in on the mutants after their return to their Summerland compound, the Shadow King begins to break free of his coffin deep inside David’s mind with a tear through the lid that looks just like the crack in the egg on the poster for Ridley Scott’s “Alien.”

In the astral plane, plenty of people can hear you scream, as it turns out. But they can also see you trade on the ideas and images of others at the expense of creating your own.