Good morning. 

Here’s what you need to know:

• President Trump jumped to the defense of his son, denouncing reports about Donald Trump Jr.’s meeting with a Russian lawyer to gain incriminating information about Hillary Clinton as part of “the greatest witch hunt in political history.”

The younger Mr. Trump and his allies argue that pursuing material to use against a political opponent is standard practice. While opposition research is indeed part of modern campaigns, it normally does not come from a hostile foreign power.

Here is how the peddling of opposition research — or oppo, as political professionals and reporters call it — typically works.

_____

• As the Russia story follows President Trump to France, where he will celebrate Bastille Day, people close to the president are anonymously blaming one another for the decisions of the last few days.

And Christopher Wray, Mr. Trump’s nominee for F.B.I. director, separated himself from the president on the issue in his Senate confirmation hearing. Mr. Wray, above, said the investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. presidential election and possible links to Mr. Trump’s campaign was not a “witch hunt.”

_____

• One of the largest icebergs ever recorded, weighing more than a trillion metric tons, broke away from the Antarctic Peninsula, providing a glimpse of how the Antarctic ice sheet might ultimately start to crumble.

There is no scientific consensus over whether global warming is to blame. But the landscape of the Antarctic Peninsula has been fundamentally changed.

“Maps will need to be redrawn,” one scientist said.

Above, the crack in the ice shelf in 2016.

_____

• Indonesia cleared the way for President Joko Widodo to disband civic organizations without judicial oversight — an apparent challenge to increasingly powerful Islamist groups who oppose his pluralist administration.

The decree alarmed human rights groups, which worry it could easily be used to ban any religious or civil society groups, whether they are hard-line Islamist or not.

_____

• In India, the rise of Yogi Adityanath, the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh, has come as a shock to many.

After all, Adityanath (pronounced Ah-DIT-ya-nath) is a radical, and the leader of a temple known for its militant Hindu supremacist tradition.

Yet, as our Delhi bureau chief writes, the diminutive, baby-faced warrior-priest, 45, is receiving the kind of career-making attention that projects an Indian politician to the highest ranks of government.

_____

• The Breakdown updates throughout the day with news and notes from Australia. Today, we look at Australia’s nationwide gun amnesty program, introduced on July 1, and ask: Why now?

• Apple set up its first data center in China. The $1 billion investment is seen as a sign for how foreign tech companies will comply to a new law ordering them to store Chinese users’ information inside the country.

• Negotiators from 11 countries began Trans-Pacific Partnership talks in Japan, the Obama-era free trade deal that President Trump abandoned in his first days in office.

• Janet Yellen, the Federal Reserve chairwoman, highlighted continued strength of job growth in an upbeat report to Congress.

• China’s Anbang Insurance Group bought a chain of Canadian retirement homes despite ownership concerns. With Anbang’s chairman now detained in China, critics are troubled by Canada’s lax attitude toward Chinese investment.

• Japan Tobacco offered to buy Mighty, the struggling Philippine cigarette company, for $890 million.

• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• The health of Liu Xiaobo, the Chinese Nobel Peace laureate, is worsening. The hospital that is treating him said his liver, kidney and breathing functions were failing. [The New York Times]

• In Japan’s “Black Widow” trial, Chisako Kakehi, 70, stunned the courtroom when she admitted to poisoning her husband — one of six men who died soon after marrying or dating her. [The New York Times]

• Chinese troops left for Djibouti to establish China’s first overseas military base. [Xinhua]

• Schoolgirls in Saudi Arabia will be allowed to take physical education classes for the first time. [The New York Times]

• Who is Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi? A video looks at the Islamic State leader who has repeatedly been reported dead, and who has eluded Western forces despite a $25 million bounty on his head. [The New York Times]

• Upsets at Wimbledon. No. 1 Andy Murray and No. 2 Novak Djokovic, both struggling with injuries, were eliminated in the quarterfinals. [The New York Times]

• Flashback: Our Vietnam ’67 series remembers the 50,000 Korean soldiers who fought with American troops — an episode often forgotten in the U.S., but never in South Korea. [The New York Times]

• Thailand’s ancient cats, notably the blue-eyed Siamese, are in decline; of 23 native cat breeds, only five or so remain. [Nikkei Asian Review]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Learning mindfulness meditation or relaxation techniques may improve your mood and attention span.

• Does your phone run out of juice midday? Choose your charger wisely.

• For something light, go with an herb and radish salad with feta and walnuts.

• Watch ants build an Eiffel Tower (sort of). New research explains how ants band together to survive floods, and this video shows some surprisingly good insect architecture.

• Hundreds of millions of Chinese have turned to religion in recent years, and an environmental awakening has followed.

• And at Shanghai Disneyland, Buzz Lightyear speaks Mandarin, and Chinese cultural icons rub shoulders with heroes from Marvel Comics and “Star Wars.” Plus, our Frugal Traveler offers tips for theme parks.

Recent reports that the Pentagon spent millions to license a camouflage pattern that replicates lush forests — to be worn in largely arid Afghanistan — got us thinking about the famous design.

As it turns out, the word “camouflage” appeared in The Times for the first time 100 years ago.

The concept of disguising matériel and soldiers to blend in with their surroundings originated in the 1800s and was further developed during World War I.

In May 1917, a New York lawyer who visited the French battlefront wrote about it for The Times’s Magazine section.

The French were among the first to use to camouflage on a wide scale, with a unit made up of artists known as “camoufleurs.” In August 1917, the U.S. Army issued its own call for enlistment in a “camouflage force,” seeking “young men who are looking for special entertainment in the way of fooling Germans.”

Camouflage later became common in art and fashion. A 2007 exhibit at London’s Imperial War Museum noted its links to Cubism. (Picasso exclaimed upon seeing a camouflaged cannon in Paris: “It was us who created that.”)

The artist Andy Warhol also used it, substituting bright colors for earth tones, which removed the military symbolism but retained the notion of hiding.

Karen Zraick contributed reporting.

_____

We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

This is the latest edition of the Race/Related newsletter. To get it in your inbox weekly, sign up here. Tell your friends and share your stories.

Trying to find someone who looked like me in the world of superheroes is not something I thought about growing up in the ’70s. My parents are from Ecuador, but I was born in the United States and always thought of myself as American (no preceding modifier and hyphen needed), and what could be more American than the fight for truth and justice?

It was not until I started writing in 2002 about the comic book industry for The Times that I really started thinking about diverse representation. By 2006, more concerted efforts were underway for comic book heroes to be more reflective of the real world and its increasingly diverse readership.

My entry into the world of comics was “Super Friends” (1973-86), which united DC Comics heroes in animated form. They had colorful costumes, but their skin tones were almost uniformly white. The first hero who stood out to me as “other” was Green Lantern, though his darker hue was more like a deep tan.

Four diverse heroes were added to Super Friends in 1978. The intent was well meaning then, even if it seems especially ham-handed now: Apache Chief (Native American), Samurai (Japanese), El Dorado (Mexican) and Black Vulcan (one guess). The show rarely depicted their civilian lives, so viewers never learned much about them.

The world of comic books, though, was more lacking. The first Latino hero I met was Vibe, a Justice Leaguer who premiered in 1984. Out of costume he was Paco Ramone, a Puerto Rican break dancer. His first page has cringeworthy dialogue: He says “fresh,” “chill” and “wack,” and uses “chu” (instead of you) a lot, but a few pages later, we learn that this is largely posturing. Among his large, close-knit family, he drops his accent and pretense.

Later that year I met Yolanda Montez, who would become Wildcat II. She was of Mexican descent and added some diversity to her team, Infinity Inc. Yolanda came with an odd tick: Her thoughts and speech were often expressed in Spanish and English. This helped readers who were not bilingual, but made me wonder: Why is she always repeating herself — and in two languages?

Recently in an article about America Chavez, a Marvel hero who is Latina and lesbian, I read 10 lessons about comics and diversity by David F. Walker, who is working on a new Luke Cage series for Marvel. One resonated with me: “If you don’t think representation is crucial in comics, you’ve never been under represented or marginalized.”

Several of Mr. Walker’s lessons deal with supporting comics with diverse representation. It seems obvious, but it is not: People need to buy these books (not download them illegally) for them to survive. “The comic industry responds to how money is spent or not spent,” he writes. “Nothing else matters.” It would help these characters from being the scapegoat for lagging sales, which is how a small number of retailers recently saw a sales slump at Marvel.

The Black Panther series, written by Ta-Nehisi Coates, sold more than 300,000 copies of its debut issue. Issue no. 11 sold just over 35,000, but interest in the series was strong enough to warrant a couple of spin-offs, one of which began last week.

My go-to source for superheroes are comics, but we live in an era when many of these champions are on television and film. Robbie Reyes, the latest version of Marvel’s Ghost Rider, is Latino and debuted in 2014. The character joined the fourth season of “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” last year. Wild Dog, a hockey-mask-wearing vigilante named Jack Wheeler who was introduced by DC in 1987, is on “Arrow,” where he’s become Rene Ramirez. Then there is the utter delight that Wolverine’s daughter in this year’s “Logan” is of Mexican descent. Even Archie Comics is part of the fiesta — Veronica Lodge is half Latina in “Riverdale.”

That brings me back to Vibe, who has done well for himself, considering that he was murdered in 1986. He was resurrected in comics and, in 2012, he fought androids and break-danced in one of the animated shorts of DC Nation. Two years later he became a key part of “The Flash,” which is reaching an average of 2.87 million viewers a week.

For the next generation of superheroes fans, representation will be easier to find. Nothing wack about that.

— George Gene Gustines

After we featured an American flag made of hair in last week’s newsletter, we learned of another flag of interest. The artist who created it, Laura Serejo Genes, explains:

The U.S. Code has an entire section concerning the treatment of the flag. Section 8J (4 U.S.C. § 8(j)): “The flag represents a living country and is itself considered a living thing.”

My interest in the Mexico-U.S. border stemmed from the thought that there are an infinite number of ways to cross illegally, but only 48 legal checkpoints. I set off to visit all of them.

In August 2015, the Mexican-American painter Mauricio Cortes and I set off on a research trip along the entirety of the border, east to west, documenting the conditions there. I returned to the studio with a spool of fencing wire a mile long. From this spool I began to make coils, cut them into rings, and weave the rings into a textile in the form of the United States flag.

The resulting piece is about 6 feet by 3.5 feet, and weighs just under 50 pounds. It is displayed on the floor and made to be interacted with, draped over and bunched. The phenomena of chain mail, with its liquid-metal qualities, relies on synergy between touch, sight and sound. The tones of red, white and blue are achieved by incorporating three distinct styles of chain-mail weaves, which can be loosely categorized as European, Japanese and Persian.

These ancient groupings delineate spheres of competing influence that continue to define international politics. This chain-mail flag is my personal meditation on both the weight and malleability of the American mission.

Join us on Facebook at 9 p.m. Eastern on Wednesdays. In our latest live chat, April Ryan, who covers the White House for American Urban Radio, spoke with our reporters Rachel Swarns and John Eligon about race in the Trump era and what it’s like to be one of the few black journalists covering the current administration. [Watch]

On Tuesday, readers asked the artist Tasha Dougé questions about her U.S. flag made out of hair. [Watch]

Know anyone else who might like to subscribe to Race/Related? Then please forward our email to a friend, and have that friend sign up at: https://www.nytimes.com/newsletters/race-related

Here are some of the articles that we’re talking about, beyond The Times.

For 18 years, I thought she was stealing my identity. Until I found her. [Read]

Brazil’s New Problem With Blackness [Read]

The Critique of Racial Liberalism [Read]

To My Darling Etta Mae [Listen]

The Times publishes many articles that touch on race. Here are a few you shouldn’t miss, chosen by Race/Related editors.

Native American Treasures Head to the Met, This Time as American Art [Read]

What Is the Future of Identity? [Read]

‘Locking Up Our Own,’ What Led to Mass Incarceration of Black Men [Read]

In ‘Black Power!,’ Art’s Political Punch and Populist Reach [Read]

Why I Chose a Historically Black College [Read]