The perfect April Fools’ Day pranks are all a little ingenious, a little cruel and a bit too revealing. These books capture the same spirit of mischief with collections that straddle the line between memoir and late-night sketch, veracity and embellished storytelling. Whether you’re abstaining or just looking for a more passive brand of humor, these titles offer the same feeling of satisfaction that comes with outsmarting those closest to you. No scheming required.

BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. The hashtag #girlboss could have been created for Tina Fey. Before her book’s release she employed some 200 people on her hit show “30 Rock” and perfected the art of political parody with her portrayal of Sarah Palin on “Saturday Night Live.” She feeds her memoir with those tales, as well as scenes from motherhood and other episodes from life off the sound stage. But to call the book just a memoir would be misleading. “It’s a spiky blend of humor, introspection, critical thinking and Nora Ephron-isms for a new generation,” Janet Maslin wrote in her review.

IS EVERYONE HANGING OUT WITHOUT ME? (And Other Concerns), by Mindy Kaling. Before Kaling had her own sitcom, “The Mindy Project,” she had another Mindy project: this book. Her collection of essays relies on a trusted format — rehashing the antics of a comically absurd life in New York — but Kaling embues it with confidence and endears fans by inserting herself into a Venn diagram of frivolity with Kelly Kapoor, her breakout character from “The Office.”

HOLIDAYS ON ICE, by David Sedaris. Sedaris is one of the most popular figures in American humor writing. “Holidays on Ice,” written largely before his Ira Glass-adjacent fame, pokes fun at holiday-season consumerism and oneupmanship. The best of this satirical collection is “SantaLand Diaries,” a meditation on his time as an elf for hire, which our reviewer, Alexandra Jacobs, called “at once hilarious and profoundly depressing.”

MODERN ROMANCE, by Aziz Ansari with Eric Klinenberg. At first look, “Modern Romance” might seem like a senior sociology thesis thought up by two buddies after too many shots at a comedy show. Yet Ansari’s riff on a single, semitragic dating episode, which he spins into a data-rich meditation on the problem of finding love in the 21st century, has universal appeal. It doesn’t hurt that he recruited an N.Y.U. professor to dig up supporting evidence or that his translation of it for the layman shares the zing of his standup and his acclaimed Netflix show, “Master of None.”

I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK: And Other Thoughts on Being a Woman, by Nora Ephron. Ephron launched her career in part by talking about her body — specifically, how she grew to love her bosom. It’s no surprise then, that she eventually shaped a whole book around the idea of corporeal betrayals, sharing anecdotes of physiological humiliation — the sagging, the staining, the (failed) attempts to combat time and gravity — with a blend of wry humor and womanly swagger. Aging is O.K. with her, as long as she can get a good story out of it.

AMERICA (THE BOOK): A Citizen’s Guide to Democracy Inaction, by Jon Stewart, Ben Karlin and David Javerbaum. This witty civics lesson by the longtime host of “The Daily Show” tackles all the trappings of American democracy covered in your grade-school curriculum. Chapters outline the foundation of democracy and its future, but also the muddled execution (as in the aptly titled “Congress: Quagmire of Freedom”), along with sidebars and graphics that double as sight gags. The beauty of this parody textbook is how much of an educational supplement it could be. Jokes aside, it’s honest about the American framework: “Schoolhouse Rock!” for the era of The Onion.

I LIKE YOU: Hospitality Under the Influence, by Amy Sedaris.  A guide to entertaining from Amy Sedaris might seem like a joke in itself, but there is genuine party-planning information inside this book — more than 200 recipes and some quirky tips that can only be described as “preposterously resourceful.” The actress known best for her role on “Strangers With Candy” might not lead you to a stress-free hosting experience, but she’ll definitely leave you fully prepared for wacky fun.

“Freedom Fighters: The Ray,” a new animated series with the actor Russell Tovey providing the voice of the main character, is to debut Friday. The series is about a band of DC Comics heroes who live on Earth X, a parallel world in which Germany won World War II. Six episodes will be available on CW Seed, the CW network’s digital content site.

Fans of the DC TV universe were introduced to this version of the Ray in live action and played by Mr. Tovey during the two-day, four-part “Crisis on Earth X” crossover last week, which included episodes of “Supergirl,” “Arrow,” “Flash” and “DC’s Legends of Tomorrow.” (The Ray was originally introduced in Smash Comics No. 14, published in 1940.)

Amid fighting Nazis — and evil versions of the title heroes — the story made time for quiet moments, two weddings and some gay, lesbian and bisexual representation. White Canary (Caity Lotz) had a dalliance with Alex Danvers (Chyler Leigh), the sister of Supergirl, but the biggest surprise was the reveal of the relationship between the Ray and Citizen Cold (Wentworth Miller), which included an onscreen kiss. Mr. Tovey answered some questions about the episode and the future of the Ray by phone on Wednesday. These are edited excerpts from the conversation.

Are you a big superhero fan?

Growing up, I always wanted to be a superhero. That’s always been something I astral projected. So when this came up, it was an easy yes — especially for what the character stood for. It magnified my excitement in portraying him. Most of my acting mates — everyone wants to play a superhero. It’s definitely one of the boxes you want to tick. It feels wonderful to be ticking that box in a big way and with a big, pink triangle.

The depiction of the relationship between two of the gay heroes, the Ray and Citizen Cold, stood out during the “Crisis on Earth X” story line.

It made me very happy. Wentworth is just one of the nicest guys I’ve worked with. He’s so supremely Zen and open. We had the best time and we hung out outside of filming and he’s become a friend. I said, “People are liking us; the Ray and Cold together.” He was thrilled. It’s kind of crazy that in 2017 that’s still seen as the unseen. Someone tweeted me or Instagrammed me a message. They are gay parents. Their son was watching the show and ran in to them and said, “There are two superheroes who do what you do,” when they kissed each other. He was so happy about it. So many people have been so supportive of seeing two superheroes who are gay played by two actors who are out. It seems like it became a bit of a moment. I couldn’t be prouder to be one half of that moment.

This project was announced in August last year, but it is finally coming to fruition. How do you feel?

I was nervous. I love “The Flash.” I watch “Legends of Tomorrow.” I’ve seen a bit of the “Arrow” and of “Supergirl.” To be part of that world, I felt the pressure of portraying a superhero — what that means to fans, what this character will mean going forward. I wanted people to connect to him and want to see more of him and embrace him as part of the DC Universe.

How was the reception?

Someone forwarded a link where there were some guys trolling me. Someone was like, “Why have they revoiced Russell Tovey? Maybe he couldn’t do the American accent?” I was like: You’ve actually complimented me. It is my voice. They didn’t need to revoice me. As an English actor, going into an American production with a huge American audience, that was something I wanted to get right.

What can we expect from the animated series?

We meet the Ray and we meet him on Earth X, where we met him in the crossover episodes. [The animated series will also introduce the Ray’s parallel earth counterpart, Ray Terrill, a housing lawyer.] The Ray is dying and he transfers over to contact Terrill and give him his powers. You then see how Terrill becomes the Ray.

Will we see the Ray’s relationship with Cold?

You may see a relationship blossom is all I can say. You’re going to see a lot of Ray Terrill’s friendships and how, in a parallel world, they are different. The scripts are so well written, beautiful and moving. When I read the scripts, I was sobbing at one point. I was really, really touched by the story. This is a guy who is gay and what he’s going through and what becoming a superhero does to him.

What are you hoping the impact of this will be?

I’m just so happy that it’s out in the world. On prime time TV, you’ve got two superheroes that are gay kissing and who are played by gay actors — hopefully one day that will be normal. I want the Ray to become someone that gay kids watching TV — who might feel a bit out there and not accepted or who don’t understand themselves — can relate to.

James Monroe Iglehart is really happy living in New Jersey. Wait, that’s not quite right. Actually, Mr. Iglehart, a 2014 Tony Award winner for his bravura performance as Genie in the musical “Aladdin,” is really, really happy living in New Jersey. He loves the ease of jumping in his car and driving to places like Target and Bed Bath & Beyond, loves that he gets more space for less money.

When people express incredulity at his decision to bunk in the Garden State — and they do that a lot — he has an answer ready: “I tell them: ‘I have a better view. I get to look at New York, and you have to look at New Jersey,’” said Mr. Iglehart, 42, who will be joining the cast of “Hamilton” as Marquis de Lafayette/Thomas Jefferson next week.

He and his wife, Dawn, are on their third rental in a West New York, N.J., waterfront complex since beginning a series of cross-country jaunts from their native California nine years ago.

“I got lucky with a Broadway show,” Mr. Iglehart said, referring to his 2007 stint in “The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee,” during which time he sublet in New York City. “Then I thought, ‘O.K., this was great. Now I’ll go back to California.’”

In 2009, he got another Broadway musical, “Memphis,” the occasion for the first rental in West New York. Once again, back to California. In 2014, he returned to Broadway in “Aladdin.” On to apartment No. 2.

After the Tony win, Ms. Iglehart, who works in biotech, put her foot down. “We’re staying in New Jersey,” she said.

Each bump up in salary and billing has translated into a larger, more attractively appointed apartment. “Memphis” was a one-bedroom and little more than a mattress on the floor. Early “Aladdin” meant a two-bedroom, and the granting of Ms. Iglehart’s wish for some “real furniture.” Later “Aladdin”: a two-bedroom with a view of the Hudson River that the ebullient Mr. Iglehart finds calming.

“My favorite building in New York is the Empire State, and I can see it from my couch,” he said. “It’s a wonderful sight in the daytime and a glorious sight at night.”

The constant in every apartment is photographs of the couple’s nieces and nephews, several of whom they helped raise.

In their approach to home décor, the Igleharts have come up with an arrangement that would warm the hearts of Raymour & Flanigan, and maybe Dr. Phil, too. “We alternate choosing the furniture every three years,” said Mr. Iglehart, who, during his recent turn, selected a black leather sofa and two matching recliners. “It’s very man cave-looking, in an adult way,” he added, flipping some cushions to show the LED-illuminated cup holders and USB ports. “My wife has three years to deal with it. And then, when this set dies, she gets to pick her set.”

Mr. Iglehart’s passions are professional wrestling, comic books and toys. Ms. Iglehart’s passions are abetting and enabling her husband’s passions. Shelves in the guest bedroom are home to “Road Warrior” action figures in their original packaging and multiple stacks of Tsum Tsums, colorful stuffed rectangular figures based on Disney characters. A glass-fronted cabinet near the entryway holds Mr. Iglehart’s large and meticulously arranged collection of the pop culture-themed Pop! vinyl figurines, among them, Apollo Creed from “Rocky,” Morpheus from “The Matrix” franchise and Slimer from “Ghostbusters.”

“I put them in a specific order because I’m crazy,” Mr. Iglehart said, pointing. “Here are all the comic book characters. Here are the professional wrestlers: Big E Langston, Xavier Woods, Kofi Kingston.”

Two Mickey Mouse ear hats — his and hers — sit atop the wall unit in the living room. Recent acquisitions from Disney World, where the Igleharts have season passes, the caps keep company with replicas of Lumière and Cogsworth from “Beauty and the Beast” and a Disney snow globe with Genie inside.

“I love this,” Mr. Iglehart said, beaming. “The first time I saw it, I was like, ‘I’m in a snow globe — I am in a snow globe — and it looks like me.’” But even that pales next to the enameled metal Genie paved in Swarovski crystals.

The lamp dweller was a long time in joining the household. Soon after Mr. Iglehart auditioned for “Aladdin,” he and his wife were at Disneyland, where they spied the blue figurine in a store. Ms. Iglehart was all for laying down a credit card then and there, but her husband demurred. After all, he hadn’t yet been cast, and the Genie was too expensive.

He got the part, the show did well, and the couple went back to Disneyland on vacation. Again, they saw Genie. Again, Ms. Iglehart pressed her husband. But his response was the same, “I don’t feel I deserve it.”

Then came the Tony, followed by a visit to Disney World, where they eyed the figurine again.

“Now?” Ms. Iglehart asked.

“No,” Mr. Iglehart said. “I was like, ‘I don’t deserve it.’” Could Uriah Heep have been more humble?

Nearly three years passed, and the couple returned to Disney World just before Mr. Iglehart left “Aladdin.”

“We’re walking down Main Street, and I went into the store and asked if they still had the Swarovski Genie, because I didn’t see it on display, and they said, ‘It’s right here,’” he recalled.

“I started tearing up, and I said: ‘I’ve done everything I can do with the character. I feel I deserve it now.’ And I bought it that night.”

Skip Williamson, a rambunctious creator of underground comics that merged his radical politics with his love of scatological humor, died on March 16 in a hospital in Albany, near his home in Wilmington, Vt. He was 72.

The cause was renal failure, his daughter Molly Hiland Parmer said.

For the underground cartoonists of the 1960s and ’70s, sex, drugs, profanity and violence were as common as superheroes in mainstream comics, and Mr. Williamson was among the most provocative. His characters were often visual grotesques, like Snappy Sammy Smoot, a dandy with googly eyes, gigantic red (or pink) lips, pomaded black hair and a delicate mustache. Smoot’s naïveté placed him in counterpoint with the era’s changing politics and mores.

Mr. Williamson found President Richard M. Nixon a particularly inviting target for caricature, distorting him a few degrees more than editorial cartoonists did. In a two-panel cartoon published in Class War Comix, Nixon wonders how to react to a phony newspaper article that accuses Vice President Spiro T. Agnew of killing thousands by flatulence.

“We’re in serious trouble, Spiggy,” a fretful Nixon says, applying a powder puff to his 5 o’clock shadow with one hand and holding lipstick in the other. “Cruel anarchists have perpetrated an incredibly effective, image-shattering hoax on the American public.”

Mr. Williamson was one of those anarchists. He aligned himself in the 1960s with the Youth International Party, better known as the Yippies. He knew its leaders, Abbie Hoffman and Jerry Rubin. He edited a comic book, Conspiracy Capers, to raise money to pay the legal fees of the radicals known as the Chicago Seven — including Mr. Hoffman and Mr. Rubin — who were tried for conspiring to disrupt the 1968 Democratic National Convention. He was a courtroom artist during the trial and also helped illustrate Mr. Hoffman’s prankish best seller “Steal This Book.”

“I was always more political than most of the other underground artists,” Mr. Williamson told The Comics Journal in 1986. “Or antipolitical. I believe honestly that if you vote for these bastards, you only encourage them.”

The protesting outside the convention — and the violent response by the Chicago police — radicalized him, and his work. He waded into the protests, he said, and was tear-gassed.

“I was doing psychedelic cartoons,” he said in “Pigheaded,” a documentary about Mr. Williamson by John Kinhart that has been shown at a few film festivals. “After that, it was, ‘Kill the pigs.’”

Mervyn Wilton Williamson Jr. was born in San Antonio on Aug. 19, 1944, and grew up in Austin, Tex., Lynchburg, Va., and Canton, Mo. His father was a humanities professor and minister, and his mother, the former Rhodie Lott, was a homemaker.

When he was a boy, his troublemaking led his grandmother to nickname him after Percy Crosby’s mischievous comic strip character Skippy. Mr. Williamson’s high jinks extended to stealing comic books from a local candy store and drawing Mickey Mouse in the margins of a notebook, which led to his being disciplined by his third-grade teacher.

He became a pacifist because of his father’s experience in World War II: Mervyn Sr. was shot down during a bombing raid over Romania and was still designated missing in action when Skip was born. The father was, in fact, a prisoner of war whose captors showed him the bodies of children who had died in the raid. The experience led to undiagnosed post-traumatic stress disorder, his children said in interviews in “Pigheaded.”

Still, Mr. Williamson loved to infuriate his strait-laced, professorial father with his love of comics. “I made comics because it was an anti-intellectual behavior,” he says in the documentary.

In 1961 he sold his first cartoon, to Help!, a satirical magazine founded by Harvey Kurtzman, whose irreverent, pioneering work at Mad magazine in the previous decade made him a prominent influence on future underground cartoonists like Mr. Williamson, R. Crumb and Gilbert Shelton. The cartoon showed two garbage cans in New Orleans that are identical but for their signs.

One says “White trash”; the other, “Negro trash.”

He later recalled that the comedian Dick Gregory showed the cartoon to Jack Paar on “The Tonight Show.” “Boy, what an ego boost for a high school kid in Canton, Mo.,” Mr. Williamson told The Comics Journal. “That really gave me a shot to want to keep going.”

As underground comics surged in popularity in the late 1960s, Mr. Williamson and his fellow cartoonist Jay Lynch created Bijou Funnies, a comic book that showcased their work and that of other artists.

Mr. Lynch died on March 5.

“He was heartbroken” by Mr. Lynch’s death, said Harriett Hiland, the third of Mr. Williamson’s four wives, who stayed friendly with him after their divorce. “We had a long talk about Jay dying. He was terribly down about that.”

Mr. Williamson never gave up on Sammy Smoot and the gallery of other characters in his comics — or comix, as underground practitioners preferred to spell it — but the genre faded. He found work at men’s magazines like Hustler, Gallery and Playboy, where he was an art editor and created a comics section, Playboy Funnies.

For Playboy, he illustrated a short story by the science-fiction writer Arthur C. Clarke,  “When the Twerms Came,” about aliens conquering Earth with a Psychedelic Ray, an Itching Beam, a Diarrhea Bomb and Tumescent Aerosol Spray. Mr. Williamson turned the short tale into a silly, preposterous visual tableau, with one Twerm munching on a hot dog and another watching “The Mod Squad.”

In later years, he began to paint large acrylic canvasses and had shows at the Vinson Gallery in Decatur, Ga., and the Eyedrum Art & Music Gallery in Atlanta.

“At one of his shows in Atlanta,” said Patrick Rosenkranz, an underground comics historian, “somebody asked him to move one of his paintings, of Jesus packing heat. They had hung it so you could see it through the gallery door and got complaints.”

Two years ago Mr. Williamson married Adrienne Morales, who survives him, as do his daughters, Ms. Parmer, Nikki Williamson Weiner, and Megan and Rita Williamson; two grandchildren; a sister, Rhonda Baker; and his brothers, Joseph and Alan. His previous marriages ended in divorce.

Mr. Williamson’s sympathies might have rested with the Yippies for a while, but he had little trust in politicians of any stripe.

In one panel of a comic, Sammy Smoot stands between two figures: a crew-cut, vampire-fanged, cigar-smoking “conservative” and a cool-looking “liberal” wearing buttons that exhort “Save Soviet Jews,” “Boycott Lettuce” and “Keep On Truckin’.”

“Liberals are patronizing egomaniacs,” Smoot says. “And conservatives are vicious power brokers!”

“Look at how many brown people are here!” Dean Obeidallah said to cheers after taking the stage Sunday at the Comic Strip Live, a comedy club on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

The Muslim stand-up performer, one of several on the bill that night, looked both jubilant and deeply satisfied as he continued to eye the sold-out audience of 200.

“This room, ” he said, “is Donald Trump’s worst nightmare.”

Mr. Obeidallah, who is half-Palestinian and half-Italian, created the recurring show, “The Big Brown Comedy Hour,” in 2009 as a way of giving stage time to comedians of Middle Eastern and South Asian descent, among others. But on Sunday, the jokes took on a different, more urgent tone than usual. With President-elect Donald J. Trump preparing to take the oath of office on Friday and having threatened tough new policies affecting Muslim immigrants, Mr. Obeidallah told the crowd it was time for “comedy resistance.”

Sunday’s show, advertised with the tagline, “the last laugh before Trump deports us,” was one of a rapidly growing number of political protests by artists using their platforms to speak out against Mr. Trump. More than 130 artists have signed a letter calling on cultural institutions to shut their doors on Inauguration Day. Stage actors, directors and others will gather outside theaters nationwide on Thursday night to champion “the values of inclusion, participation, and compassion.” And Meryl Streep used a speech at the Golden Globes to deconstruct Mr. Trump as a performer and rebuke him for what she saw as a lack of humanity.

Many Muslim artists say they have particular cause for concern. In December 2015, after a terrorist attack in San Bernardino, Calif., killed 14 people and seriously injured others, Mr. Trump proposed barring Muslims from entering the United States. His remarks drew a standing ovation from his audience at a rally on the Yorktown aircraft carrier in Mount Pleasant, S.C., but were also criticized by many Democrats and Republicans. He has since shifted his focus to limiting or aggressively vetting those from predominantly Muslim nations and other countries that have been linked to terrorist groups.

No one knows exactly what Mr. Trump will do as president, but vigilance is intense among many artists and progressives nationwide.

“We’re going to be feisty,” Mr. Obeidallah, 47, said during his set. “We’re going to fight. We’re never giving up. Right?”

Many audience members at the Comic Strip Live nodded approvingly, seemingly as one.

The comedy show has always been rooted in solidarity. Mr. Obeidallah said that he created it so those facing discrimination in a post-Sept. 11 world could find solace and laughter.

“I said: ‘Why don’t we do a comedy show? Sort of a celebration of being brown in America?’” Mr. Obeidallah said in an interview. “And also with a little political undertone. You know, we’re going to have fun and make fun of any kind of bigotry, and my goal on some bigger level, frankly, is to create alliances between the brown communities.”

The act has attracted some big-name comedians in the past, like Aasif Mandvi, best known for his work as a correspondent on “The Daily Show,” and Kumail Nanjiani, a star of HBO’s “Silicon Valley.”

Of all the performers on Sunday, Maysoon Zayid, a Palestinian-American who Mr. Obeidallah calls his comedy sibling, spoke the most vividly about the anxiety that some Muslims are grappling with in the age of Trump.

During her set, she said she was suffering from “Trump-pression” and was losing her eyebrows as a result.

“I am Donald Trump’s worst nightmare: I am Muslim, I bleed wherever, and I’m disabled — I have cerebral palsy, so I shake all the time,” she said, referring to Mr. Trump’s mocking of Megyn Kelly, then a Fox News host, and of Serge F. Kovaleski, a reporter for The New York Times who has arthrogryposis, which limits the functioning of his joints. Ms. Zayid once gave a TED Talk on living with cerebral palsy, and her routine was almost entirely a takedown of Mr. Trump, using exaggeration and hyperbole to play to the crowd.

“I’m genuinely afraid that Trump is going to nuke Canada,” Ms. Zayid said during her set. “And he’s not going to realize that the fallout is going to take us out too, right? And I think the motivation is Justin Trudeau is a 10.”

After her set, Ms. Zayid said that Mr. Trump worried her far more than other recent presidents she didn’t like. “With George Bush, I had absolutely no fear that I would ever be silenced,” she said. “With Donald Trump, I think I could get dragged offstage and have people actually cheer it. I never thought that would happen in America.”

Not every comedian on Sunday focused only on Mr. Trump. There were sendups of cultural stereotypes. There were jokes about immigrant parents picking significant others for their children. Mr. Obeidallah cracked about President Obama taking his shoes off in a mosque.

“He was confident and he was comfortable. He’s a Muslim,” he said, playing on the disseminated falsehood that the president is Muslim.

Others seemed to treat Mr. Trump as another source of material, nothing more, nothing less. Feraz Shere, a 33-year-old comic who specializes in impressions, did spot-on caricatures of both President Obama — whom he tweaked as having to weigh in on toothpaste rather than nuclear issues after leaving office — and of Mr. Trump, whom he portrayed as a stand-up comedian.

“‘I tell the best jokes. O.K.?’” Mr. Shere started in a Trump-like voice, gesticulating wildly to the crowd.

In an interview, Mr. Shere said he didn’t think he was targeting Mr. Trump for unusually harsh ridicule. To him, the jokes were just that: jokes. “I haven’t really looked at things politically from solely a Muslim viewpoint,” he said. “I grew up in a fairly nonpracticing household.”

While comedy is generally regarded as a stress reliever, some members of the audience emerged expressing various levels of unease, anxiety and hope.

Mahnoor Waseem, a 21-year-old political science student at Montclair State University in New Jersey, came with her 19-year-old sister. She was born in Pakistan and arrived in the United States a few months after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. She called the 2016 election “emotionally strenuous,” and said she reacted to the comedy show with “nervous laughter.”

“Because I hope that whatever the comedy, the material doesn’t become true,” she said. “So it was like, close my eyes and hide.”

But she said she did not have a visceral hatred of Mr. Trump and that she had to be loyal to the country and the president, “regardless of who the president is.”

“I felt a little bit of hope,” she said. “That hope comes with my faith.”

After the last comic left the stage, Mr. Obeidallah ended the show by putting a twist on the usual bit that comedians use to promote themselves. He said another “The Big Brown Comedy Hour” had been scheduled for March because of high demand.

“If we’re allowed,” he quipped.

Surprising absolutely no one, Captain America is to return to heroism this week after 15 months as the leader of Hydra, a Nazi-like organization.

The moment of truth comes in Issue No. 10 of Secret Empire, which will be released by Marvel Comics on Wednesday. The series has chronicled the Captain’s takeover of the United States and many of his former allies forming an underground resistance.

The Secret Empire story line, written by Nick Spencer and drawn by several artists, has been controversial since Captain America uttered the words “Hail Hydra,” back in May 2016. There were death threats aimed at Mr. Spencer on social media, accusations of anti-Semitism (the Sentinel of Liberty, as the hero is nicknamed, was created by two Jewish men, Jack Kirby and Joe Simon, and fans did not like the character cozying up to evil) and more. Read New York magazine’s “First Captain America Became Evil, Then the Comics World Erupted,” for more details.

Axel Alonso, Marvel’s editor in chief, stands by the project, and Mr. Spencer’s desire to tell a tale about creeping fascism. “We understood the story would challenge readers, but we also know how it ended,” he said. “We also thought the story had something important to say about democracy, freedom and the core American values that Captain America embodies.”

Any parallels to the current political climate have been coincidental. Marvel had no idea that Secret Empire would end “at a time when our country would be engaged in — let’s call it heated debate — about fascism,” Mr. Alonso said.

Captain America’s transformation to villain (including a muted green-and-yellow uniform) and back to goodness (and his classic red, white and blue costume) involves cosmic shenanigans better left to the comic book pages to explain. A more easily understood moment is (spoiler alert) seeing the Marvel heroes, drawn by Steve McNiven, no longer at odds with one another, but standing tall, united and smiling.

It seems fitting that the announcement of Captain America’s return to the side of angels is on Monday, what would have been Mr. Kirby’s 100th birthday. The Jack Kirby Museum and Research Center is celebrating him in New York through Wednesday.

Another of Mr. Kirby’s and Mr. Simon’s creations will return in October when Titan Comics publishes the first issue of Fighting American, another patriotic hero — though this one with a satirical bent. One of the covers for Issue No. 1, in comic stores on Oct. 11, which would have been Mr. Simon’s 104th birthday, displays some of that edge.

It pokes at the Captain America controversy with cover lines that read: “No secrets. No empires. Just an all-American hero.”

Does Donald Trump laugh?

Last year, many publications pointed out that in the presidential campaign, he never let loose even a chuckle, leading to much speculation and some philosophizing. A survey of four decades of guest appearances on late-night shows reveals Mr. Trump does indeed laugh, but rarely. Particularly after he turned down an invitation to the White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner, an event meant to let a president show off his lighter side, it’s tempting to draw a conclusion about his sense of humor. But that would misunderstand the source of laughter, which is not, as many assume, only a response to something funny.

Over a century ago, Henri Bergson, one of the first modern philosophers to think deeply on the subject, pointed out that laughter is an “inherently social” activity, and in recent decades, academics have found data to support this theory. “Laughter is the quintessential social signal,” the neuroscientist Robert R. Provine concluded after conducting experiments that eavesdropped on strangers in public. What he discovered is that most laughter is not connected to humor but rather part of the give and take of daily interactions. We laugh to put people at ease, to exclude or humiliate or form community, to flirt, to end an awkward pause. It’s less about jokes than about relationships, which is why, he reported, people laugh 30 times more in the company of others than when alone. My experience in watching stand-up in a club versus a screen at home certainly bears this out.

While much attention is paid to audience chortles, the laughter of the stand-up comic remains underexamined, despite being a critical part of the performer’s tool set. Laughter changes pacing, meaning and tone, and in part because of its use as a social signal, it can assist or even save a joke.

Some comics have laughs that are an inextricable part of their persona. Think of the early work of Eddie Murphy, whose trademark was a honking guffaw. He has said that distinctive laugh started as a genuine response, then turned into a strategic one, a part of his performance, before he finally phased it out. In his new special as well as his HBO series, “Crashing,” Pete Holmes displays one of the more boisterous laughs in comedy today, one that pointedly telegraphs a joyous point of view.

On sketch shows like “Saturday Night Live,” performers seem to be breaking character more than ever. And in a recent episode of Jerry Seinfeld’s “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee,” Cedric the Entertainer made fun of comics who laugh before a joke — he called it a “pre-laugh” — hinting that it’s a cheap way to get the audience to respond. A good point, but seen another way, what’s so wrong with slyly manipulating the crowd? There is an art to it. For many comics, laughter provides a pause to build suspense, or increase the scale of a response after the joke. Periodically, Dave Chappelle gooses the audience by dropping the microphone to his body, doubling over, laughing and running upstage.

A chuckle is often necessary to get a certain kind of risky joke across to a wary audience. Jim Gaffigan, one of the premiere joke tellers today, hardly ever laughs in his delivery, maintaining an amiable deadpan. But he makes a rare exception in his new special, “Cinco,” when he strikes stingingly at the heart of his persona: being a relatable ordinary guy. “All I need is a nice bed and a private jet,” he says. “Just a regular old private jet to take a regular old guy to a regular old private island away from his kids. I’m just salt of the earth, I’m Everyman.” Then Mr. Gaffigan blurts out a chuckle.

He may have just thought this joke was really funny, which, told by him, it was. But his jokes are carefully worked out, and that laugh also served a purpose: To make it clear that he’s being ridiculous, to blunt the edge of a harsh joke by sending a signal to the crowd. Even if he didn’t intend the laugh, it could have also been the instinctive move of a crafty professional.

With more obviously provocative material, Louis C.K. did something similar with a bit about pedophiles during his  opening monologue on “Saturday Night Live” in 2015. As he finished a punch line that explored how much they must love sex with children considering the consequences, he added a few giggles. The laugh gave the joke a gentler impact.

Such ingratiating laughs are even more common on late-night TV. I compared the monologues from talk-show hosts on network television to the stand-up specials released on Netflix over the past few months, and found that one of the biggest differences is in the amount of performer laughter. In their specials, stand-ups mostly keep a straight face, presenting jokes the way an actor performs a part, while hosts like Jimmy Fallon and James Corden are generally easy laughs, cracking up at even the most innocuous stories by famous guests.

Their laughter sets a welcoming mood, a sign of politeness and generosity if not high standards. It’s also contagious — “laugh and the world laughs with you” has also received scientific support in recent years.

Late-night hosts laugh to connect with their audience, but Mr. Trump appealed to his audience through a different route. Perhaps he’s stingy with laughter because he has had success through violating social norms as much as navigating them.

Or maybe he is just trying to project power. A stern face suggests gravity more than a giggle does. It’s difficult to perform authority when you’re convulsed in hilarity. While our previous president had a gift for delivering a dry punch line, even alongside some of our best comedians, there’s a reason the ex-congressman Morris Udall titled his memoir “Too Funny to Be President.”