When Joe Olivier asked what his niece wanted as a high school graduation present this year, she asked for a couple of thousand dollars in gift cards. She got a letter instead.

In that was a to-do list from her doting uncle: Read two books about personal finance that he had sent her, and write a one-page report on each. Then, take an online accounting course and pass its test. Once those tasks were done, only then would he open a checking account in her name and deposit some money.

Last week, I wrote about the value of preparing and passing along the money letter, in which a parent or other relative lays out some hard-won financial wisdom. I also asked readers to send in ones they’d written or read.

I found the submissions insightful, hilarious and touching. The letters that arrived contained several illuminating one-liners about money’s relationship to everything from sex to gambling that you may find useful as you try to impart insight to your own loved ones.

But like Mr. Olivier, other letter writers also asked something of their recipients: To recognize and own the strong feelings we all have about money. To be patient, careful, fair and generous. To want more but not be greedy. To revel in doing things and care less about having things.

Feel free to borrow liberally from the following writers when it comes time to write your own letter:

EMOTIONS Mr. Olivier turned to a letter because he worried that a big money talk would go in one ear and out the other. “The problem is that kids these days, you sit them down and start being a raconteur, and their eyes glaze over because their attention spans are that of a gnat,” he said.

Mr. Olivier, 55, acknowledged that he did get serious rather quickly when writing to his niece, who will attend the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. “Money and finances typically are wrapped up in a lot of emotions for everyone, and your views on these subjects have been shaped since you were born,” he wrote.

Why start there? Because one of the most common conflicts around money in families is scarcity. “Typically there is never enough,” he said in an interview this week. “The kids key in on that.”

And they do so long before they have much technical knowledge of how to manage money responsibly. Schooled in feelings before finance, is it any wonder they sometimes make emotional decisions about how much to borrow for college or what to spend once they get there and get out?

Mr. Olivier suggested that wizened grown-ups need to make the whole subject much more bloodless, long before writing any letters. “Try to be upfront with your kids about budgets and the financial situation in the family,” he said.

SEX When his two sons left home for college, George Bohmfalk gave each of them a letter with some words of advice. Among them, were these: “Along with sex, money seems to get more people into trouble than everything else combined,” he wrote. “And both are great when handled properly.”

So what links these two powerful forces, exactly? “Maybe because, like having sex, money represents success to a whole lot of people,” Mr. Bohmfalk, who is now 68, said in an interview. “And money has become a medium of measuring one’s worth, like sex appeal.”

Roughly two decades later, both of his sons have had no problems that he knows of with sex or money, and they never had to move back home.

Mr. Bohmfalk also mentioned some related words to live by that a physician friend passed on to him many years ago: One spouse, one house. “So many of our friends had a beach house or a lake house or an airplane and a divorce or two,” he said. “Suddenly, they were having to work until they dropped.”

Mr. Bohmfalk, a former neurosurgeon who lives in Charlotte, N.C., retired from the practice of medicine on his 50th birthday.

RISK One other thing that sex and money have in common is that both tend to involve a certain amount of risk. Not that there is anything wrong with careful, considered financial bets. In most instances, in fact, risk is necessary.

“Investing always involves risk,” Greg Berman of Brooklyn wrote a few years ago to his two daughters, now 17 and 13. “It is basically a form of gambling. But it is also the only means of accumulating wealth other than by the sweat of your own labor.”

His family has successfully taken on real estate risk over the years, whether it was his relatives who were developers outside of Washington or the bet he and his wife made on a Manhattan apartment and then a Brooklyn house.

They’ve also bet on stocks. But they prefer the index funds that feel less like a spin of a roulette wheel than individual stocks do. Hannah Berman, Mr. Berman’s elder daughter, says he’s fond of telling a story about buying stock in Marvel, the comics company, as a young man. “He immediately lost everything,” she said.

ENVY (AND GENDER) Envy is a problem, and Mr. Berman, who is 49 and runs a nonprofit, is clear on that in his letter. But he doesn’t default to the presumption that so many parents of teenagers do: That wanting things is itself somehow bad. “It is O.K. to want more,” he wrote. “Indeed, this impulse can be a spur to action and invention and success.”

Why put it that way? In an interview, he talked about all of the books and movies his daughters take in that make the case that money doesn’t matter. Money is the root of all evil! Marry for love! Chase your dreams!

But then much of the rest of the culture sends the exact opposite message. “I was trying to find the sweet spot that acknowledges the wisdom of both of those perspectives,” he said.

On a related note, his letter mentions his experience witnessing men aggressively negotiating raises over the years when women often did not. “It is O.K. to ask for a raise,” he wrote. “It is also O.K. to bargain over the price of many products.”

Wanting a bit more prestige or a bigger office has been a positive in many situations he had witnessed. “We want our kids to be ambitious and do stuff,” he told me.

ADVENTURES Early in her career, Robin Hubbard, 59, made more money per month than her father ever had. She’s worked at a Fortune 500 company. But a series of health setbacks and the death of her husband have led to her living on — and with — much less.

When she saw last week’s column, she wrote the following to her 19-year-old daughter: “I encourage you to be a collector of adventures and making other people smile. I have found after the hardship of health problems, I do not want anything but the next great conversation or interesting experience.”

She turned to the letter format for a couple of reasons. When she was younger, no one talked to her much about money or wrote anything down, so she wanted to do better as a mother. Plus, the personal budgeting talks with her daughter, who lives with her in Bethalto, Ill., have not quite hit home yet.

A written letter, however, has a chance of lasting. That is something that she values after her health scares over the years.

“I will probably frame it, because I want her to know that it is a keepsake,” she said. “And I’m probably not going to be there when she has kids of her own.”

Our quirky, discerning picks for the most interesting things to do around the state this week.

SAN ANTONIO

Good vs. Evil

Saturday marks the 75th anniversary of Marvel Comics, made famous by writers and illustrators like Steve Ditko, Jack Kirby and Stan Lee. David Liss, the San Antonio novelist and comic-book writer, will mark the occasion by appearing at Barnes & Noble to discuss, among other things, the similarities between Marvel’s Spider-Man and Jane Austen. “Spider-Man was the first comic-book hero who was exactly like comic-book readers,” Mr. Liss said, likening average guy Peter Parker to Austen’s protagonists, cast in the ordinary image of her female readers. Joining Mr. Liss, who writes the Black Panther and Mystery Men series for Marvel, will be Joe McKinney, a San Antonio police officer and writer, whose 2011 novel “Flesh Eaters” won the Horror Writers Association’s Bram Stoker Award. Their discussion, titled “Creating Heroes and Villains,” will analyze the genre-bending evolution of Marvel characters. “This factor played a huge role in Marvel moving comics from a medium consumed almost exclusively by children to one that, today, is marketed to more sophisticated adult readers,” Mr. Liss said.

Barnes & Noble — The Shops at La Cantera, Aug. 2, 2 p.m., barnesandnoble.com

HOUSTON

Crosstown Fare

The Houston chef Chris Shepherd promotes his restaurant, Underbelly, with the tagline: “The story of Houston food.” This means seasonal produce, fresh fish and premium meats and charcuteries from the restaurant’s in-house butcher shop. It also means a wall displaying photographs of Houston-area restaurants he encourages his customers to patronize. Mr. Shepherd has expanded his culinary anthropology this summer with a six-part “Off the Wall” dinner series, for which he has collaborated with other local chefs to raise scholarship money for culinary students at the Art Institute of Houston. At the series finale on Sunday, Mr. Shepherd will go old-school Texas, teaming with Blood Bros. BBQ, Feges BBQ and Gatlin’s BBQ (part of Texas Monthly’s 50 Best BBQ Joints list) to produce a menu that is expected to include a whole hog, beef bellies, Chinese-style barbecue and a traditional brisket. Unlike previous dinners, seated and capped at 200 people, this one will serve 100, and diners will be encouraged to roam and hang out in the parking lot by the barbecue pits.

Underbelly, Aug. 3, 7 p.m., 

underbellyhouston.com

AUSTIN

Wacko From Waco

Billy Joe Shaver never stopped being an outlaw. In 2007, at age 68, the Waco singer-songwriter shot a man in the upper lip outside a bar in Lorena. (He was later acquitted.) He is probably known more for the shooting than for the songwriting prowess on his 1973 debut album, “Old Five and Dimers Like Me,” or in the songs he supplied for Waylon Jennings’s album “Honky Tonk Heroes,” also in 1973. But there’s a good chance that is about to change. On Tuesday, 11 days before his 75th birthday, Mr. Shaver will play a free performance at Waterloo Records to celebrate the release of “Long in the Tooth,” his first studio album in seven years — and the first since the shooting. It includes two songs, “Hard to Be an Outlaw” and “The Git Go,” that Willie Nelson recorded for his latest album, “Band of Brothers.”

Waterloo Records, Aug. 5, 5 p.m., billyjoeshaver.com

MATAGORDA

Treasure Land

Paddle and Stroll, on Saturday and again in September and October, combines two of Matagorda Bay Nature Park’s most popular activities: kayaking and beachcombing. Starting at 9 a.m., a guide will lead adventurers on a short paddling trip up the Colorado River and then back down to the beach on the far shore of the Matagorda Peninsula, where a one-mile beachcombing trek awaits. There are plenty of seashells to admire, of course: sundials, angel wings, cockles, Scotch bonnets, jewel boxes and lightning whelks — the state shell. There are also sea beans, coconuts, hamburger beans and crucifix beans. And then there are rarities, like fossilized shark teeth.

Matagorda Bay Nature Park, Aug. 2, 9 a.m., lcra.org

LUCKENBACH

Keep On Truckin’

In 1970, Hondo Crouch, an eccentric Austin folklorist, purchased the ghost town of Luckenbach pretty much solely on the precept of “eat, drink, and be merry,” paving the way for Saturday’s inaugural Hill Country Food Truck Festival. Eat and drink from more than a dozen trucks and wineries, and be merry to a lineup of eight Americana musical acts.

Luckenbach, Aug. 2, 12 p.m., luckenbachtexas.com

EL PASO

Cinema Revisited

At this year’s 11-day Plaza Classic Film Festival, billed as the largest of its kind, attendees can see more than 80 movies long gone from the theaters, including “The Wizard of Oz” (celebrating its 75th anniversary), “Rear Window” (60th anniversary), and “Purple Rain” (30th anniversary).

Various locations, Aug. 7-17, plazaclassic.com

Name your price. That’s the proposition that fans of The Walking Dead comic book were facing on Wednesday as a new digital-only issue of the series was released. Visitors to Panel Syndicate will be able to decide how much, if anything, they want to spend on the comic, The Walking Dead: The Alien.

Influencing their decision may be that the regular team of Robert Kirkman, who began the series in 2003, and Charlie Adlard, who has drawn it since 2004, has been replaced. But they may be assuaged by who has taken over. The Walking Dead: The Alien is by Brian K. Vaughan and Marcos Martin, the critically acclaimed team behind Panel Syndicate, the pay-what-you-will site that offers digital comics directly to readers.

But let’s cut to the (relatively) spoiler-free chase: The 28-page story does not disappoint. While the regular comic has explored life in a world where zombies have overrun the United States, The Alien is more global. The story begins in Barcelona, Spain, where Mr. Martin, the artist, was born and raised, which gives his detailed cityscapes added authenticity. He decided to work in black and white to complement the format of the continuing The Walking Dead series, and makes bold use of light and shadow, along with unexpectedly powerful splashes of color.

Mr. Martin said that the locale was in line with Panel Syndicate’s international reach. It also meshes well with Barrier, his and Mr. Vaughan’s new series about illegal immigration. There may have been a third reason, too. “Probably that Brian would like my brain eaten by a zombie,” Mr. Martin said. “That’s my only influence in the actual plot of the story.”

Speaking of Mr. Vaughan, The Alien has his signature style: snappy dialogue, excellent pacing and a confounding of readers’ expectations. “I’m a Walking Dead fan boy,” he said. (He bought his local comics store’s last copy of issue No. 1 back in 2003.) “I knew there were some deep questions that Robert has hinted at over the course of the years,” he added, and this was his chance to explore one.

This idea for the comic started as a lark last year, when Mr. Vaughan took over Panel Syndicate’s Twitter account and encouraged questions. Mr. Kirkman and Eric Stephenson, the publisher of Image Comics, had already been after him and Mr. Martin to consider a print edition of The Private Eye, the syndicate’s first project.

Mr. Kirkman sensed an opportunity that day. “I’ll antagonize him a little more and ask him in public,” he said. In a tweet, he said: “Can Image print a collect of The Private Eye yet? C’mon!” Mr. Vaughan’s response: “After Panel Syndicate gets our Walking Dead one-shot!”

“I responded, ‘Deal,’” Mr. Kirkman recalled. “I wasn’t 100 percent serious, but I wasn’t going to let him respond like that and win.”

Eventually, all the creators involved realized that no one was joking. Mr. Vaughan and Mr. Martin allowed a hardcover edition  of The Private Eye, which was published by Image in December, and they were given the green light to produce a Walking Dead story.

“It’s such a crazy thing,” Mr. Kirkman said. “Even if someone was a friend with someone at Marvel, you could never do that with The Avengers.” Because this series is creator-owned, the circumstances were different. “I don’t answer to anyone,” Mr. Kirkman said. “I’m supposed to do cool stuff like this to show what can be done.”

There was some red tape, but it was relatively painless: While Mr. Vaughan and Mr. Martin will enjoy the proceeds from the digital sales of The Alien, Mr. Kirkman will have the right to print the issue and will own the characters. “I may do an action figure at some point, and you have to be O.K. with that,” he said.

Comic-book fans typically want more, so questions about a sequel are inevitable. “If they ever have an itch to come back and explore this world, I’m open to it,” Mr. Kirkman said. “Unless people start talking about how much better their issue is than the ones I do with Charlie Adlard. Then I’ll have it pulled offline and never be seen again. I am prepared for that.”