Another Marvel character, Punisher, is added to the mix in the new season of “Daredevil” on Netflix. And on “20/20,” Diane Sawyer interviews the actress linked to the capture of the drug lord known as El Chapo.

DAREDEVIL on Netflix. The Marvel Comics universe’s ever-expanding presence on the small screen gets a little bigger with the second season of this series, whose 13 episodes are available online. Charlie Cox is back as Matt Murdock, better known as Daredevil, a blind lawyer who moonlights as a crime-fighter in Hell’s Kitchen. But Marvel fans may recognize new additions to the mayhem: Punisher (Jon Bernthal) and Daredevil’s ex-girlfriend, Elektra (Élodie Yung). (Image: Mr. Cox)

PEE-WEE’S BIG HOLIDAY (2016) on Netflix. Thirty years have passed since Paul Reubens’s beloved character, Pee-wee Herman, set out on a journey across the country to find his lost bicycle with help from the fugitive Mickey, the ghostly truck driver Large Marge and other memorable characters. Now, after meeting a mysterious stranger, Pee-wee is inspired to take a first vacation in what turns out to be an adventure-filled story of friendship and destiny. In this film, Neil Genzlinger wrote in The New York Times, Pee-wee is “less frenetic and more reactive” than in the past. “Perhaps he knows that a lot of people watching this sweet, silly film will be in a mellower place than they were when ‘Pee-wee’s Playhouse’ was on television more than a quarter-century ago.” (Image: Mr. Reubens)

THE PROGRAM (2016) on various streaming platforms. Ben Foster stars as Lance Armstrong in this biopic based on the book “Seven Deadly Sins,” by the journalist David Walsh, who is played by Chris O’Dowd. The movie tells the story of Armstrong’s rise as a Tour de France champion and stunning fall brought on by his doping and lies.

SLEEPY HOLLOW 8 p.m. on Fox. In the latest episode of this mythological mash-up, Ichabod Crane and Abbie Mills find themselves forced by circumstance to fight alongside their foes. Abbie’s sister, Jenny, tries to salvage her relationship with Joe Corbin as they take a break from fighting real demons to battle their own internal ones.

20/20 10 p.m. on ABC. Diane Sawyer interviews Kate del Castillo, the actress at the center of the controversy surrounding the arrest of Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican drug lord known as El Chapo. In her first television appearance since his arrest Ms. del Castillo, a Mexican-born actress living in Los Angeles, discusses her role in arranging Mr. Guzmán’s interview with Sean Penn, and the circumstances that led to his capture.

THE TONIGHT SHOW STARRING JIMMY FALLON 11:30 p.m. on NBC. Scheduled guests include the “Supergirl” actress Melissa Benoist and John Krasinski, who is making his stage debut this month in the play “Dry Powder” at the Public Theater in New York. Mike Posner is the musical guest. (Image: Mr. Fallon)

Chalice is a new superhero who can manipulate gravity so that she can fly. Chalice is also Charlie Young, a male college student, who, unbeknown to his family, is beginning to transition to female. Unlike most superheroes, who have to maintain one secret identity, Chalice has two.

And so begins Alters, a series from AfterShock Comics, coming in September, that will introduce Chalice in a central role.

The series was created by the writer Paul Jenkins, a comics veteran whose credits include Origin, which detailed the early days of Wolverine. For Mr. Jenkins it is a passion project, one he has pursued since 2005. He gives a lot of credit to his mother, a gay single mom who raised him and his brother in Dorset, England. “If we ever get to a point where issues such as race, sexuality and gender identity are a nonissue, we will have arrived,” he said. “That’s my Mum talking right there.”

With the Alters — this comic’s term for people who have some kind of empowering anomaly — Mr. Jenkins, 50, is set to explore characters who have special abilities and physical, chemical or mental challenges. One story will focus on an unattractive heroine. “The TMZ report would be ‘Ugly Chick Saves World,’” he said. Another will focus on a shape-shifter who becomes quadriplegic and faces a choice: remain that way and live or opt for a final change that will grant mobility but prove fatal after a month.

Mr. Jenkins said that he had always planned for a transgender superhero in the series, but Chalice didn’t fully take shape until he met a fan, Liz Luu, in 2014, at a convention panel about creating characters. Ms. Luu had an appealing idea: a transgender hero who hadn’t transitioned yet and could present as a female only when in costume.

“She can only be herself when she’s not herself” is how Mr. Jenkins summarized her. In exchange for mentoring Ms. Luu, who is now an executive assistant at the Cartoon Network, Mr. Jenkins incorporated that idea into Chalice’s back story.

In some ways, Alters harks back to Mr. Jenkins’s work for Marvel Comics, where he created the Sentry, a Superman-like hero with schizophrenia.

Mr. Jenkins said that he firmly believed that Alters would not turn into a series of moral lessons in which everyone learns about tolerance and grows as a person. “The most important thing in approaching this book is for me to concentrate on these characters as heroes and villains, and to let these things come out during the process,” he said.

A transgender superhero is rare, but not unusual in the current world of comics, where the industry has made efforts to be more reflective of the real world. Recent superheroes have been lesbian, Muslim, plus-sized and more. Next month will introduce Kim & Kim, a sci-fi adventure from Black Mask Studios, about two bounty hunters — one a trans woman, the other bisexual — who are best friends. There is also TransCat, an independently published humor comic about a transgender heroine.

“The big news about diversity in comics is that we now have diversity in comics — in the people who actually create the material and also in the characters depicted,” Mark Evanier, a comic book historian, said. “When I was growing up, every hero might just as well have been the same well-toned male in a different costume.”

This is the second series by Mr. Jenkins for AfterShock, a publisher that was founded last year and whose first comics came out in December. One of those was Replica, by Mr. Jenkins and Andy Clarke, about an overwhelmed detective on a space station, who clones himself 50 times for the sake of efficiency.

AfterShock’s founders are Jon Kramer and Lee Kramer, a father and son with extensive film and television experience; Jawad Qureshi, a Silicon Valley entrepreneur; Michael Richter, a media and technology executive; and Mike Marts and Joe Pruett, comics industry veterans. “When I first started talking to the AfterShock team,” said Mr. Marts, who is editor in chief, “I realized quickly they weren’t in it to make a quick buck or just create intellectual property for TV, movies or video games.”

“Comics are the first priority,” Mr. Pruett, AfterShock’s publisher, agreed. “If it translates into film and television, that’s great.” The company’s series are by a mix of established and emerging creators.

The comic book industry, Mr. Jenkins said, “is such a boys’ club.” It is not a circle that he felt particularly at home in, and so he set out to find people to create Alters who reflected the diversity in the comic.

Brian Stelfreeze, who is black and is currently drawing Marvel’s Black Panther series written by Ta-Nehisi Coates, will provide covers; Leila Leiz is handling the interior pages; and Tamra Bonvillain, who is transgender, is the colorist. As for the writer, Mr. Jenkins, he joked: “I have the heterosexual middle-aged man locked up.”

If you release a movie called “Captain America: Civil War” to an ideologically polarized nation in the midst of a notably contentious presidential campaign, you can expect to reap a whirlwind of think pieces. In spite of occasional public scolding about the rampant misuse of allegorical interpretation, hard-pressed, click-seeking cultural journalists and political pundits can be counted on to take up the hard work of finding echoes, resonances and subtexts in a big pop-cultural pseudo-event. If you hybridized Donald J. Trump and Elon Musk, would you get Tony Stark? Would Captain America’s endorsement have made a difference for John Kasich? Is Ant-Man a Bernie Bro?

I hate to disappoint, but I have to say that I’m not really feeling it. The cues are there, of course. An aura of vaguely topical importance is as vital to a superhero-franchise movie as a merchandising deal. So “Civil War” pauses for a few moments of chin-scratching and speechifying about whether a group of genetically advantaged, highly weaponized individuals should be brought under the supervision of the United Nations. More seriously — because, come on now, do you really think Captain America is going to put on a blue U.N. helmet? — the film glances at some of the moral complexities of modern warfare. The designated good guys are responsible for the deaths of innocents, and the question of their accountability hovers over the movie and sets its plot in motion.

But this very crowded, reasonably enjoyable installment in the Avengers cycle — written by Christopher Markus and Stephen McFeely and directed by Joe and Anthony Russo — reveals, even more than its predecessors, an essential truth about the Marvel Cinematic Universe. It’s not so much a grand science-fiction saga, or even a series of action-adventure movies, as a very expensive, perpetually renewed workplace sitcom.

New characters are added as the seasons wear on. Cast members are replaced. The thing gets a little baroque and tests the boundaries of coherence, but we keep showing up because it can be pleasant, in a no-pressure, low-key kind of way, to hang out with these people as they banter and squabble and get the job done. Sometimes you want to go where everybody knows both your street name and your nom de cape. (And yes, thank you, I’m perfectly aware that these Marvel superheroes don’t wear capes.)

In this episode, based on a run of comics written by Mark Millar, some of the usual crowd is missing. No Hulk. No Thor. No Nick Fury. The newcomers include Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), whose first solo adventure is prophesied during the final credits, and a very young Spider-Man (Tom Holland), whose solo adventures are the property of a different movie studio.

Do you need a list of the rest of them? There are a lot, and my space is limited. The headliners are Cap (Chris Evans, of course) and Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr., of course), and most of the others you hope will show up for at least a brisk punch-up, a bout of soul-searching or a self-conscious joke or two. “Captain America: Civil War” is like the last number at a big benefit concert, when a mob of pop stars squeezes onto the stage to sing “This Land Is Your Land,” or whatever. Some performers sing a whole verse. Others shake maracas for the cause and stare off into the middle distance.

Scarlett Johansson is on board. Also Anthony Mackie, Don Cheadle, Paul Rudd, Elizabeth Olsen and so many more. You can go ahead and match them with their superhero identities and civilian alter egos. I’m not here to do your homework for you.

The Russo brothers, whose résumés include “Arrested Development” as well as “Captain America: The Winter Soldier,” are better at dialogue than at action. The early chases and fights are hectic, stroboscopic messes, evidence less of the innovative power of digital effects than of the creative fatigue they can induce. It’s difficult to see exactly what’s going on, but you’ve seen it before anyway, so it hardly matters. People and vehicles are tossed around. Buildings blow up. Glass shatters. It all serves a cumbersome and not very original narrative.

As in “Batman v Superman,” a dude with a grudge (Daniel Brühl) is determined to set the superheroes against one another. To call the fighting that ensues a civil war seems a bit grandiose, though. A more honest title would have been “Captain America: Collegial Misunderstanding” or “Captain America: Intramural Pickup Game.” The differences of opinion and temperament that cleave the Avengers — it comes down to Iron Man’s arrogance versus the Captain’s stubborn rectitude — provide a pretext for a few sequences of brawling and yelling that are actually kind of exciting to watch.

The best part of the movie is a six-on-six rumble at an airport, in which two teams of costumed co-workers, with a few ringers in the mix, face off to work out their issues. The battle is entertaining precisely because the stakes are relatively low. No planets, cities or galaxies are in peril, and you can enjoy the spectacle without any of the usual action-movie queasiness about invisible and extensive civilian casualties. (Someone will have to clean up the mess, of course, but that just means overtime for the maintenance workers, who may even be unionized). And there is a solid, satisfying physicality to the effects. That’s true of the climactic mano a mano as well, though the mood is grimmer and the sense of personal grievance more intense.

“Captain America: Civil War” does not in any way transcend the conventions of the genre. On the contrary: It succeeds because it doesn’t really try. The dialogue is peppered with movie and pop-cultural references — at one point, Spider-Man draws inspiration from “a really old movie” called “The Empire Strikes Back” — and there is even a sly joke about the proliferation of “enhanced” battlers of evil and world-threatening events. The movie seems aware that it risks wearing out its welcome, which would be disastrous, given that Marvel and Disney have already locked in release dates into the next decade. Tune in next time? Sure, why not. It’s a job somebody has to do.

“Captain America: Civil War” is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). A little more swearing and a lot less killing than you might expect.  Running time: 2 hours 27 minutes.

TORONTO — Just because a film is called “Suicide Squad” doesn’t mean the people making it can’t have a little fun.

Last July, on a smoke-filled soundstage here at the Pinewood Toronto Studios, Will Smith was dressed in body armor, beatboxing on a public-address system for the entertainment of his crew and cast mates on the 63rd day of a planned 93-day shoot.

Around the set, made to look like a white-collar office caught in a supernatural war zone, Margot Robbie, wearing hot pants, pigtails and a T-shirt reading “Daddy’s Lil Monster,” was getting retouches to her garish clown makeup.

On a break from freestyle rapping, Mr. Smith gathered at a cluster of monitors with David Ayer, the film’s writer and director, who was showing edits of another action sequence and explaining how he’d spent the previous weekend rewriting the film’s third act.

“It’s a little morally challenged,” Mr. Ayer said, “but we know we can get away with it.”

A year later, it’s time for audiences to render their own verdict on “Suicide Squad,” the next entry in Warner Bros.’ film series based on DC Comics characters, which makes vicious felons of its all-star cast, including Mr. Smith as a coldblooded mercenary named Deadshot, Jared Leto as the cackling archfiend the Joker and Ms. Robbie as his murderous partner Harley Quinn.

“Suicide Squad,” which opens Aug. 5, follows a roster of second-tier criminals — Lex Luthor need not apply — who are manipulated by the government into forming a team. Dispensable and desperate to earn their freedom, the misfits suddenly become invaluable when they’re the only ones who can save the world from catastrophe.

The same could be said for “Suicide Squad,” the film itself, which comes just four months after “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice,” the critically reviled (if commercially successful) superhero showdown, directed by Zack Snyder, that opened up the wider DC movie universe and was supposed to leave fans eager for more.

Now it is up to “Suicide Squad” to rescue the reputation of this nascent franchise and keep viewers excited about further installments. To do so, the movie will have to make the most of its lineup of lesser-known characters (which includes members of Batman’s rogues gallery), a couple of cameos from Ben Affleck’s Caped Crusader and its darkly comic story line that seeks the good in some very bad people.

“They’re isolated figures with, let’s say, negative self-image,” explained Mr. Ayer, who wrote “Training Day” and directed the brutal action dramas “Fury” and “End of Watch” from his own screenplays.

What his films have in common, he said, are people who “create families on their own terms, and then discover things like friendship, warmth and humanity.”

Mr. Ayer, who roamed the set with a Harley Quinn comic book tucked in his back pocket, said he came to appreciate these themes in “Suicide Squad” roughly two years ago, during a preliminary conversation about the project with Greg Silverman, a Warner Bros. executive.

At that time, the studio was rapidly accelerating plans for its DC films, which compete with Marvel’s empire of interconnected superhero movies. Mr. Ayer said he saw an opportunity for a comic-book adaptation in the spirit of “The Magnificent Seven” or “The Dirty Dozen,” but with a modern-day panache he felt the genre was missing.

“Instead of this Soviet-style series of apartment-block movies that are all built to the same blueprints, there’s room for some Craftsman homes and a little more elegance,” he said.

Warner Bros., which already had “Batman v Superman” in production, gave “Suicide Squad” the green light, and Mr. Ayer began casting it even before his screenplay was finished.

Mr. Leto, who had just won an Academy Award for his performance in “Dallas Buyers Club,” said he could not pass up the chance to play the latest live-action incarnation of the Joker, a role previously inhabited by Jack Nicholson and Heath Ledger.

“To play someone that has no rules like that is a very rare opportunity, and incredibly intoxicating,” Mr. Leto said.

Ms. Robbie, the rising star of “The Wolf of Wall Street” and “The Legend of Tarzan,” said she was similarly excited by the unhinged freedom that Harley Quinn offered.

“It’s just so rare for a female to get the roles where you’re like, ‘Oh, she’s the craziest, she’s the funniest or she’s the strongest,’” Ms. Robbie said.

“I can do 10 different takes, all different reactions, and it still suits her,” she added. “No one can really tell you you’re wrong.”

Over the course of filming, Mr. Leto said he found that Mr. Ayer was “very empowering to let people go, and he wasn’t precious about what was on the page.”

“He was very much interested in encouraging moments — accidents, ad-libs, something unexpected or surprising,” Mr. Leto said.

(Asked if Mr. Ayer could still give him a note or adjustment when he was in character as the Joker, Mr. Leto answered with preternatural calm: “He may bleed a little bit. But he can try.”)

In a conference room at Pinewood decorated with “Suicide Squad” concept art and storyboards, Charles Roven, a producer of the film, said that he had “butterflies.”

“You’re just never sure when the audience is going to go, ‘I love that thing — I want more of that,’” said Mr. Roven, a producer of “Batman v Superman” and Christopher Nolan’s “Dark Knight” movies.

“It doesn’t matter how much spectacle you give people,” he said. “You’ve got to give people something to care about, something to root for.”

Though that was, effectively, how moviegoers responded to “Batman v Superman,” which was widely panned for its gloomy, airless depiction of its title heroes and their convoluted grudge match.

Though the film sold more than $872 million in tickets worldwide, that total was still a disappointment in the current blockbuster arms race, in which Marvel’s “Captain America: Civil War” has sold more than $1.1 billion globally since its release in May, and Fox’s “Deadpool,” based on a Marvel antihero with far less name recognition, has sold more than $782 million in tickets since it opened in February.

In a recent follow-up interview, Mr. Roven said that “obviously the critical response to ‘BvS’ was not as robust as we would have hoped, and so we did have to take a look at that.”

But, he added, at that point, “we were pretty much down the road, onto how we were handling ‘Suicide Squad.’”

Mr. Silverman, who is Warner Bros.’ president of creative development and worldwide production, said that some criticisms of “Batman v Superman” were not worrisome for “Suicide Squad,” which by its premise has a less stuffier, more anarchic tone.

With “Batman v Superman,” Mr. Silverman said, “people wished it was a little more fun or a little bit more flamboyant. We knew we had ‘Suicide Squad’ coming, and you sense they should be happy with it.” Recent box office research predicts it could sell $125 million or more in tickets at its opening weekend in North America.

Mr. Ayer said in a recent interview that the mixed performance of “Batman v Superman” meant “there’s definitely more scrutiny” on “Suicide Squad.”

“Ideally, we’d just be drafting in their wake,” Mr. Ayer said. Instead, he said, he and Warner Bros. allowed test audiences to see an early cut of “Suicide Squad” and offer feedback.

“It can’t just be this protective, internal process,” he said. “We have to put this out in the world. What can we upgrade? What can we improve? How can we make it better?”

Based on that testing, Mr. Ayer said there was additional filming this past spring to add another action sequence to the movie.

“I won’t say what it is,” Mr. Ayer said. “But it’s great. It works. I was so happy to get it.”

No matter what reactions greet “Suicide Squad,” Warner Bros. continues to move forward aggressively with its DC movies. The studio plans two to three movies a year, including “Wonder Woman” (directed by Patty Jenkins and scheduled for June 2017) and “Justice League” (directed by Mr. Snyder and planned for November 2017), “Aquaman” (directed by James Wan) and a Batman film directed by Mr. Affleck.

The Hollywood trade publications have reported that Warner Bros. reshuffled producers’ and executives’ responsibilities after the release of “Batman v Superman,” including the possibility of less day-to-day involvement for Mr. Roven in future franchise movies.

But many of the key personnel from “Batman v Superman” are still involved in and needed for these DC films.

To produce that many movies in far-flung locations around the world, Mr. Roven said, “it’s going to take a village.”

Mr. Silverman of Warner Bros. said that each of these movies would have its own voice, and that they were not intended to have a single, monolithic tone.

“You’ll definitely see a fuller expression of each of the directors and writer-directors within their movies,” he said.

He added: “They’re not going to compromise. They’re going to express themselves and that’s why we hired them.”

Having nearly completed his two-year race to make “Suicide Squad,” Mr. Ayer said he had experienced the exhilaration and the terror of making a comic-book movie.

“I think it’s addictive,” he said. “The problem with it is that it’s all-encompassing. Having done this, you start to wonder, ‘O.K., now, how do I top it?’”

Noting how infrequently any director gets to make a movie of this scale, he said: “I hope to God the audience connects with it. If they love the characters then it’s solid. We did it.”