Anyone who remembers the 1970s Tippy the Turtle “Draw Me” advertisements on matchbooks, in magazines and on television would be amazed how much times have changed. Then, amateur artists would mail their submissions to the Art Instruction Schools in Minneapolis and could begin a correspondence class to learn still life drawing.

These days, the digital world is booming with resources to help enthusiasts who want to become comic book professionals, learn the tools of the trade or improve their craft.

Comics Experienceis an e-business dedicated to teaching the core disciplines of making comics: writing, illustration, coloring and lettering. It was founded by Andy Schmidt.

“This was a way I could combine my two loves — teaching and comics,” he said.

Mr. Schmidt, 38, started the operation in 2007 as he was leaving a job as an editor at Marvel Comics. He began with two introductory classes — comic book writing and art — in a traditional classroom environment. In 2009, he took it online, and he now offers a rotation of 25 courses.

“This is my thing: helping creative people achieve their goals,” Mr. Schmidt, who is based outside San Diego, said in a telephone interview.

But comic books are also a business, and that is another area where Comics Experience helps enrollees get prepared. In October, the course “Comic Book Law for Creators,” led by Joe Sergi, a lawyer, was introduced. It offers an overview on contracts, defining terms like trademark and copyright and explaining the difference between projects that are creator-owned (the creator earns the rewards) and those that are work-for-hire (the publisher is king). “It doesn’t mean you shouldn’t use a lawyer, but it’ll give you the background to know what you’re talking about when you do,” Mr. Schmidt said.

For those lucky enough to break into the industry — and break out of the pack with a hit that draws the attention of television or film producers — the rewards can be substantial. In 2013, overall sales of comics, whether single issues, collected editions or digital downloads, were $870 million, according to estimates on Comichron, an online resource for comics research. Digital sales were $90 million.

The virtual classrooms at Comics Experience are set up differently depending on the course. Art classes use most of the screen to show illustrations. Writing workshops are less dynamic, primarily offering views of the instructor, unless students want to turn on their web cameras to see one another. All sessions are recorded and are available for review during the term of the class. Beginner courses cost $495 to $595 and run for six weeks. There are also occasional daylong “Master Seminars,” for $295, where a comic book professional — like the writer Peter David or the artist David Finch — focuses on one topic.

Comics Experience also has a Creators Workshop — think of it as a development lab — with a distribution deal tied to the comic publisher IDW. The first comic to come from this process, “Creature Cops” by Rob Anderson and Fernando Melek, had its premiere in January, and a collected edition of the three-issue series is coming in June. Workshop members (who pay $30 a month or $150 for six) can submit, at least twice a year, material to be considered for publication. Some of the pricing can be prohibitive for those just starting, so the website also includes free how-to podcasts and an archive of comic book scripts.

Another free resource for would-be professionals is the Comic Archive, whose founder, Mike Furth, 34, describes it as a virtual museum. The mission of the site is to capture how the comic industry is being transformed by digital innovation.

“Comics didn’t change the way they were made for 70 years. In the last 10 years, all of that has been upended,” he said. “I wanted to start documenting the old way of doing it. That’s why I call it an archive — an archive of the process and the tools of the trade.”

The site has a collection of video interviews with writers, artists and editors about the comic book industry. Recent entries include interviews with Simon Fraser, the editor of Act-I-Vate Comix, a collective of online comics creators, and John D. Roberts, a founder of Comixology, the iTunes of comics, which allows creators to sell their work digitally. There have also been interviews about diversity — in material and readership. The artist videos often have annotations to help viewers find the equipment being discussed.

“Since I do focus a lot on tools and techniques, there are a large number of people who come to the site because they are themselves trying to learn to make comics,” Mr. Furth said.

One of the best places to find creators talking about their craft is social media, where followers can often receive a behind-the-scenes look at work in progress.

Todd McFarlane, one of the founders of Image Comics, a company created in 1992 that became a model for creators retaining the financial rewards earned from their characters, is an active presence on Facebook. The posts vary among advance looks at pages from “Spawn” (his original creator-owned series from Image, which continues today), promotion for his new toys or guest appearances and helpful hints (usually in capital letters and with multiple exclamation points) for budding artists.

Last month, he critiqued his own pinup of Marvel’s Iron Man with the introduction, “Here’s an example of what not to do when sending in your comic book drawing for review.” He explained that publishers want to see sequential storytelling ability, not just static poster shots.

In January, he revealed the secret to his success: “Practice!!!!!” The daily repetition, Mr. McFarlane, 54, wrote, improved his abilities and gave him the confidence to submit his work to the publishers that gave him his first break.

Even the “Draw Me” art test has moved online. The Art Instruction Schools has assessment and scholarship opportunities available at FreeArtTest.com, which began last October. One of the most famous graduates of the school, founded in 1914, is the “Peanuts” creator Charles M. Schulz, who enrolled as a student in 1940 and spent four years as an instructor. Many of the Peanuts characters were based on people he met there. Fittingly, he learned of the school through a “Draw Me” ad his mother found in a newspaper.

No one, post-Charlie Hebdo, can doubt a cartoon’s capacity to change the world — R. Crumb’s breezy remonstrance “It’s only lines on paper, folks!” notwithstanding. Animated cartoons are generally more circumspect than static drawings, but some have been agitators as well.

Winsor McCay made an animated propaganda short, “The Sinking of the Lusitania,” to support America’s entry into World War I; during the Second World War, the Disney studio produced the feature-length “Victory Through Air Power” as an argument for strategic bombing. On another front, Warner Bros. cartoons like “Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs” (1943) were attacked for their racial caricatures — as was Disney’s softer-edge blend of live-action and animation “Song of the South” (1946).

A few animations have directly addressed such propaganda or stereotyping. Jimmy T. Murakami’s “When the Wind Blows” (1986), released on Blu-ray late last year by Twilight Time, is a subversively cute and cuddly, surprisingly graphic cartoon on the effects of a nuclear blast. By lampooning stereotypes found elsewhere in the movies, Ralph Bakshi’s “Coonskin,” a cartoon-and-live-action amalgam from 1975 out on DVD from Xenon Pictures and distributed by Facets Video, evoked (and incited) another sort of firestorm. Both are sendups, but if “When the Wind Blows” has the deadpan mockery of the early-’60s British revue “Beyond the Fringe” (which included a skit about the end of the world), “Coonskin” owes much to Richard Pryor’s extravagant ghetto sketches.

Adapted by Raymond Briggs from his graphic novel, “When the Wind Blows” concerns an elderly English couple in rural Sussex. Warned that nuclear war is imminent, the moon-faced pensioners Jim and Hilda Bloggs (voices supplied by John Mills and Peggy Ashcroft) do their gently dithering best to follow government instructions, laying away supplies and building a rudimentary fallout shelter. Hilda is doubtful, but Jim is resolute: “Ours is not to reason why — we must do the correct thing,” he explains more than once.

“When the Wind Blows” is more satirical than sentimental in evoking the traditional stiff-upper-lip stoicism of Britain’s salt of the earth. Mr. Murakami, a Japanese-American animator who worked largely in Britain, handles the bomb’s impact with impressive restraint — a delicately throbbing conflagration rendered in a monochromatic wash — and the onset of the Bloggses’ subsequent radiation sickness is quietly relentless. (Moral: There won’t always be an England.)

Like Mr. Bakshi, Mr. Murakami introduces elements of photographic reality into his animation — most subtly in his use of a miniature model for the Bloggses’ cottage. The presence of flat, animated characters in a three-dimensional set produces a subliminal neutron weapon effect. The rubble of their hitherto cozy lives appears more substantial than their increasingly ghostly presence.

Perceived by some as propaganda for Britain’s unilateral nuclear disarmament, “When the Wind Blows” came in for a measure of political criticism — a smug film, one commentator wrote, made not for people like Mr. and Mrs. Bloggs but “radical yuppies” who took their children to peace marches. “Coonskin,” which begins peppering the audience with the N-word seconds into the movie, was designed to outrage. It did. Led by the Harlem chapter of the Congress for Racial Equality, the campaign to suppress “Coonskin” was started during a stormy preview at the Museum of Modern Art in November 1974; with the original distributor scared off, its release was delayed for nearly a year.

Mr. Bakshi, a Jewish kid raised in Brownsville, Brooklyn, had an education in street jive. His first feature, the X-rated “Fritz the Cat,” was adapted from R. Crumb’s underground comics, but “Coonskin” is more corrosive in its caricatures of Italians, Jews, gays and women, as well as African-Americans, who are by and large the most sympathetically drawn of a grotesque lot.

A live-action framing narrative has the animated story — a contemporary folk tale acted out by an assortment of cartoon animals in a slum — told by an old convict (Scatman Crothers) to a younger one (Philip Michael Thomas) as they await escape from a Southern penitentiary. With its cast of rabbits, bears and foxes, “Coonskin” parodies “Song of the South,” a movie informally banned in the North but still revived below the Mason-Dixon line. (I saw it, less than a year before “Coonskin” was previewed at the Modern, at a Savannah, Ga., theater down the street from the site of the city’s former “slave block.”)

“Coonskin” has a generic resemblance to the violent social consciousness of a blaxploitation film like “Across 110th Street,” but the movie, bawdy, outrageous and frantic (the tempo set by Chico Hamilton’s percussive score), has a more lacerating edge. “Coonskin” is a missing link between the freestyle fury of Melvin van Peebles’s “Sweet Sweetback’s Baadasssss Song” and Spike Lee’s scattershot “Bamboozled.”

Anger inspired anger. There were pickets at some Manhattan theaters and six bomb threats on opening day — the situation extensively reported in The New York Times and The Amsterdam News. Reviews were mixed, but audiences stayed away. In 1982, the Village Voice music critic Carol Cooper wrote a post-mortem that recalled the fracas as “among the most extraordinary cultural lynchings in American history.” She also praised “Coonskin” for its “radical application of animation in the service of unpleasant truth.”

Mr. Bakshi’s effrontery obscures his movie’s other innovations. Mixing live action and animation more inventively than “Who Framed Roger Rabbit” (or “Song of the South”), “Coonskin” sets its fantastic characters in the context of gritty streets and old movies. The drawing is thick with references, not just to Looney Tunes but also to George Herriman’s “Krazy Kat.” Mr. Bakshi’s brash, brutally carnivalesque vaudeville may be difficult to watch without wincing, but it is a jeremiad with unexpected visual grace.

NEWLY RELEASED

BIRDMAN Something of a special-effects marvel with its simulated single take, Alejandro G. Iñárritu’s account of a comeback on Broadway was rewarded with multiple Oscars. The film is “a funny, frenetic, buoyant and rambunctiously showboating entertainment in which Mr. Iñárritu himself rises high and then higher still,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times in October 2014. Available on Blu-ray, DVD and Amazon Instant Video. (20th Century Fox)

THE INTERVIEW Now out on Blu-ray and DVD, as well as Amazon Instant Video, the most successfully offensive Hollywood movie of recent years is an exuberant tasteless satire before the director Seth Rogen’s clever North Korean mise-en-scène is subsumed into the actor Rogen’s action bromance with his co-star James Franco. “ ‘The Interview’ is pretty much what everyone thought it would be before all the trouble started: a goofy, strenuously naughty, hit-and-miss farce, propelled not by any particular political ideas but by the usual spectacle of male sexual, emotional and existential confusion,” A. O. Scott wrote in The Times in December 2014. (Columbia)

PORCO ROSSO Made in 1992 and newly released on Blu-ray, Hayao Miyazaki’s weirdly endearing, high-flying animation was adapted from his own manga. Intended as airplane entertainment, it concerns a former World War I aviator who has been cursed with the face of a pig. (Disney)

RICHARD PRYOR: OMIT THE LOGIC Although too stingy with the great social commentator’s performance footage and loath to diagnose his mental state, this Showtime documentary, directed by Marina Zenovich, gives some indication of Pryor’s complexity as well as his outsize talent. On Blu-ray and DVD. (Magnolia)

WATERSHIP DOWN  Martin Rosen took over from the animator John Hubley, who died before he could finish this adaptation of Richard Adams’s novel about a rabbit community in peril. Originally released in 1978 and now out on Blu-ray, with extras including an interview with Guillermo del Toro. (Criterion)

Stan Goldberg, who drew Archie comics for more than 40 years, notably a series beginning in 2009 in which an adult Archie finally marries — both Betty and Veronica, in alternate timelines — died on Sunday at a hospice in the Bronx. He was 82.

He had a stroke on July 24, said his son Bennett, who confirmed the death.

Mr. Goldberg was a freelancer for Marvel Comics during the 1960s, working closely with giants of the field like Steve Ditko, Jack Kirby and Stan Lee.

“His artwork was always top quality, always handed in on time and always made my stories look even better than they should have,” Mr. Lee wrote in an introduction to the 2010 collection “Archie: The Best of Stan Goldberg.”

At Marvel he drew comics for teenagers, like Kathy (The Teen-Age Tornado!) and Millie the Model, and he colored many other titles. He devised the distinctive color schemes for superheroes like Spider-Man and the Fantastic Four.

“The reds and blues were very important for the superheroes,” he said in an interview with the website Comic Book Resources in 2012. “You really wanted them to pop out.”

The transition to Archie came naturally when Marvel dropped its teenage titles in the late 1960s. “I worked on all their imitators,” he said in an interview posted on the website of the Australian comic book store Adelaide Comics and Books.

Mr. Goldberg’s longevity and dependability distinguished him from other artists who have drawn Archie comics since the character was introduced in 1941. He regularly drew the dozen or so Archie titles, including Everything’s Archie and Betty and Me. He also drew the newspaper comic strip by himself from 1975 until 1980 and was a lead artist for the flagship series during the 1980s and ’90s.

Some of his contributions were unusual. In 1994 he drew the Archie characters in an improbable Marvel crossover with the homicidal vigilante the Punisher; in 2003 he illustrated a comic strip written by Patricia Marx for The New York Times’s Fashions of The Times magazine in which Betty departs for a short-lived modeling career in Manhattan.

Mr. Goldberg was born in the Bronx on May 5, 1932. He graduated from the School of Industrial Art in Manhattan (now the High School of Art and Design).

He was still a teenager when he began working in the color department at Timely Comics, which later became Marvel, in 1949. He was running the department by the early 1950s and turned to freelancing in 1958.

He married Pauline Mirsky in 1962. They had homes in Queens and Hampton Bays, on Long Island. She survives him. Besides his son Bennett, he is survived by another son, Stephen, and four grandchildren.

A daughter, Heidi, was murdered in 1984, while a 19-year-old student at Nassau Community College on Long Island. Her killer was convicted in 1985. Mr. and Mrs. Goldberg became active with the national support organization Parents of Murdered Children.

In 2012 Mr. Goldberg received the National Cartoonists Society’s Gold Key Award, which inducted him into the society’s hall of fame.

His last work on Archie was the marriage series. Mr. Goldberg relished the fact that many readers were incensed when Archie first chose the patrician Veronica over the good-hearted Betty.

“I’m glad we did it, doing the Veronica wedding first, because that sets the stage for people being very upset with Archie,” he said in 2012. “People took it to heart.”