One of the things that instantly distinguished “Jessica Jones” from other live-action Marvel TV adaptations was its forward momentum and sense of mystery. Integral characters like Luke Cage, Will Simpson and Dorothy Walker were introduced quickly in order to set up the urgency of Jones’s hunt for Kilgrave. And until Episode 10, the show’s creators had done a fine job of making Jones’s search for Kilgrave feel genuinely urgent, which is pretty impressive given how many times she’s caught him, lost him, then reluctantly rendezvoused with him, and back again. “AKA 1,000 Cuts” is the first episode that has an arrhythmic pace and a generally messy structure.

The episode starts out well enough as a tense, ticking-clock thriller. It picks up immediately after he last one. Kilgrave has just escaped, and taken Hogarth hostage using his abilities. Jones must find Kilgrave before he can cause too much damage. She finds Hogarth at Wendy’s house shortly after Kilgrave has ordered Wendy to take out her divorce frustration at knife-point. This scene feels genuinely tense thanks to Robin Weigert’s nuanced performance, and the episode director Rosemary Rodriguez’s unsparing focus on Hogarth’s pain, and inability to escape.

But Episode 10 loses steam once Kilgrave gets away. First, a righteously miffed Jones confronts Hogarth after Wendy’s attack and tells her that what she “helped Kilgrave do ... was murder.” Wendy’s terrifying assault may have briefly humanized Hogarth by showing her as the victim of a determined, knife-wielding attacker. But Jones’s admonishment puts the blame for Wendy’s death on Hogarth’s shoulders. Wendy is killed after Pam hits her on the head, which sends Wendy flying head first on to her coffee table. This death provides a perfect downer of a (temporary) ending to Jones’s chase: we see blood drenching the coffee table, and stay with Pam as she shakily asks Jones to stay with her. Hogarth technically gets the last word here when she tells Pam that she’ll take care of things. But the scene really ends with Jones telling Hogarth off. And that’s not even the last time Hogarth gets kicked while she’s down in this episode.

The part of this episode in which Hogarth says that she stole Hope and Kilgrave’s unborn child in order to see if she could replicate Kilgrave’s powers feels like an obnoxious pile-on for the character (you’re pretty much irredeemable once you’ve stolen a lifeless fetus for scientific experimentation). Then again, you can forgive the series writers Dana Baratta and Micah Schraft for over-zealously condemning Hogarth — one of the most refreshing things about “Jessica Jones” is how thematically cogent it is compared to other live-action Marvel Comics adaptations.

The rest of the episode is a collection of disjointed subplots. Kilgrave gets caught by Jones, but gets away due to a contrived development involving the Kilgrave survivor’s group, who go after Jones because Robyn is misguided, and loud, but also a really good mob leader.

Robyn’s inconsistent characterization is the most obnoxiously off-kilter part of the episode’s back half. She’s queasily funny when she hollers at Jones that her fliers “took me three hours at Kinko’s, cougar,” and when she initially berates Jones by saying “If you see something, say something.” But this style of broad, sitcom-y humor makes Robyn feel like a kooky neighbor who also happens to be seriously mourning the loss of her brother (“Babe, we’re going to get you back,” she says to a photo of Ruben). Robyn is so distractingly shrill that she threatens to derail every scene she’s in.

Thankfully, the episode does eventually get to its genuinely upsetting climax: Hope kills herself when Kilgrave uses her as leverage to get back at his father Kilgrave predictably escapes in the ensuing chaos, but Hope’s death delivers the superficial jolt it’s supposed to. Episode 10 may be a bumpy ride, but it’s also unpredictable enough that you leave wondering what will happen next.

Stakeout Notes

• Big laugh when Kilgrave turns up his nose and tells Jones that her life is full of “mediocrity and under-achievement.” Harsh, but not un-true.

• How long would it take for Wendy to complete a thousand cuts anyway? Is this one of those rhetorical Tootsie Pop-style koans that the world may never know the answer to? I say thee nay: if any reader gets to ask show creator Melissa Rosenberg a question at a public Q&A, ask her how long it would take to land one thousand cuts on someone. Report back.

• The episode writers do a great job of showing how Kilgrave, a dangerous egotist, doesn’t even register the revelation that his parents’ didn’t really torture him, but rather were trying to cure him of a fatal disease. He just goes back to his script: they are the real monsters, and he’s their victim. That’s a great touch.

• Anybody else roll their eyes when Jones’s white horse showed up during her suicidal fantasy? No more Jungian symbols, please!

PHILADELPHIA — The exhibition “The Wrath of the Gods” at the Philadelphia Museum of Art is made up of masterpieces by Peter Paul Rubens and the 16th-century artists who inspired him, including Michelangelo and Titian. But alongside those works of art is the most surprising element in the show: an original comic book, commissioned by the museum.

“It was an unusual step,” said Christopher Atkins, the museum’s associate curator of European painting and sculpture before 1900 — but perhaps not a humongous leap. The heart of the show is a giant Rubens oil, “Prometheus Bound,” boldly capturing the eternal torment of one of the Titans of Greek myth, damned by Zeus for giving fire to mankind. That 17th-century work was a collaboration with Frans Snyders, who contributed the eagle.

“Prometheus in our painting is a giant figure with rippling muscles, and his powerful story is told in the most violent and dramatic way — sort of like comic books,” Mr. Atkins said. That line of thinking led him and his colleagues down a path: why not create their own comic book to honor the deity who gave humans that spark of creativity?

The museum exhibition and the resulting 24-page comic-book anthology, “Prometheus Eternal,” examine the painter’s depiction, as well as his travels in creating the work. Both are “the story of artistic inspiration,” said Mr. Atkins, who tapped Josh O’Neill, the publisher of Locust Moon Press, to gather the creators for the comic. (They include Grant Morrison, David Mack and Paul Pope.)

Comics and mythology, of course, have a long history. The origin of Wonder Woman, who first appeared in 1941, is steeped in Greek lore. Last month, DC Comics began publishing “The Legend of Wonder Woman,” a new digital series that explores that heroine’s earliest days and the gods who imbued her with power. Over at Marvel, the Mighty Thor, who burst into comics in 1962, was inspired by Norse mythology. And the cartoonist George O’Connor has been exploring the gods and goddesses of Greece in “The Olympians,” a series of graphic novels that began in 2010 from First Second.

Though Rubens toiled on “Prometheus Bound” for seven years, and Mr. Atkins worked on “The Wrath of the Gods” for almost three years, the comic-book writers and artists had only a couple of months to compose their stories.

Fortunately, Mr. O’Neill had experience putting together anthologies, including “Once Upon a Time Machine,” about fairy tales with a science fiction twist, and “Little Nemo: Dream Another Dream,” a 144-page broadsheet-size hardcover published last year that features contemporary cartoonists riffing on Winsor McCay’s “Little Nemo in Slumberland” newspaper strip, which began in 1905.

“‘Little Nemo’ was such a macro project,” Mr. O’Neill said. “This one is how many people can you squeeze into this box?” The stories are varied and include Prometheus as a superhero who serves as the world’s muse. Another imagines his ruminations on his awful fate. “Rubens’s paintings are so powerful and elemental that it is cool to see how many ways there are to respond to the material,” Mr. O’Neill said.

One story, by Andrea Tsurumi, melds biography with flights of fancy. Alongside the observation that Rubens wanted to be a skilled and successful artist (very much true) is an image of him determinedly doing push-ups (undoubtedly false). Another image shows Rubens upon a bed, gazing adoringly at posters of Titian and Michelangelo, with his head in a halo of cartoon hearts (not likely).

“She took my 100-page catalog and created a much shorter version,” Mr. Atkins said of Ms. Tsurumi’s “Rubens Becoming Rubens.” “I’m a little jealous that she could boil it down.”

The anthology, sold at the museum’s gift shops, will be available in comic stores nationally on Wednesday, three days after the exhibition closes. One hope is to make it available for sale at other museums.

“I always did feel that comics were more than they were perceived culturally,” said Bill Sienkiewicz, who painted the front and back covers of “Prometheus Eternal” and whose diverse portfolio includes Friendly Dictators trading cards for Eclipse Comics, and various work for Marvel and DC Comics. His artwork had previously been shown at the National Museum of Fine Arts in Rio de Janeiro and galleries in Barcelona, Paris and Tuscany.

Mr. O’Neill said he was proud of what he feels the project has accomplished: helping to attract a new audience to the museum and pushing comics even further into respectability.

“There’s a level of cognitive dissonance, even looking at it,” he said. “It’s like 12 feet from a Michelangelo drawing!”

When the mutant superhero Iceman came out last month — thanks to a one-two punch of his prying telepathic teammate and a time-travel visit from his younger self — he immediately became the most prominent gay comic book character. But his revelation was far from the only story line involving gay, lesbian and transgender characters in the fast-evolving world of comic-book narratives.

In October, Alysia Yeoh, a transgender friend of Batgirl, and her girlfriend Jo were married in a simple ceremony unmarred by super-villainy; Peter Parker, perhaps better known as Spider-Man, attended the wedding of Max Modell, his scientific mentor and gay colleague; and Wiccan and Hulkling, a superpowered gay couple, joined a division of the Avengers along with Hawkeye and Songbird. In August, Wonder Woman officiated a lesbian wedding, and since June, fans have been treated to the monthly adventures of Midnighter, who is out about his heroic identity and his sexual orientation. That month also saw the first issue of “Stripling Warrior,” which features superheroes that are gay and lesbian — and Mormon.

“The industry is catching on pretty quickly to the fact that diversity can improve sales of comics,” Josh Siegel, founder of Geeks Out, wrote in an email. “So publishers are evolving their lines of books to showcase queer characters in a number of interesting ways.”

Geeks Out seeks to build a fan community from a shared passion for pop culture. In June, the group inaugurated Flame Con in Brooklyn. “Both lead characters and supporting cast-members are now openly queer in many comics, allowing stories to explore different kinds of queer themes,” Mr. Siegel wrote.

And while superheroes — thanks to their longevity and their exploitation in animation, television series and big-budget films — may often hog the spotlight, a look at the independent side of the comic book industry shows even deeper depictions of gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender life.

September saw the release of the second volume of “Flutter,” a graphic novel about a shape shifter in high school that explores gender roles, and “Virgil,” about an undercover and closeted police officer in not-so-welcoming Kingston, Jamaica. In August, Jo, one of the main characters in “Lumberjanes,” about a group of Girl Scouts at summer camp, came out as transgender in a nonchalant scene.

The growing depiction of L.G.B.T. characters comes at a crossroads of passionate fandom and concentrated efforts by publishers to attract broader audiences. Gay fans have long admired the impossibly perfect bodies and chiseled features of their heroes and felt a kinship with some like the X-Men, who fought for acceptance in a world that feared and hated them simply for being mutants.

And publishers, in an attempt to reflect modern times, have introduced a plethora of champions who are no longer primarily straight, white and male under their masks. They include the teenage Muslim Ms. Marvel, the female Thor, a lesbian Batwoman, a Mexican-American Blue Beetle and many more.

This quest for diversity has not gone without some missteps. Last December, the creative team of Batgirl apologized for how it revealed that a villain impersonating the heroine was male. Some readers found the depiction, and Batgirl’s reaction, transphobic. Reprints of the story have softened her dialogue.

In July, there was a dust-up concerning the sexuality of the Marvel hero Hercules. Some fans believe he is bisexual and were put off when it was not confirmed. (Hercules had a relationship with Wolverine in an alternate-reality story; there was also some innuendo about a dalliance with Northstar, the mutant hero who came out in 1992.)

Steve Orlando straddles the worlds of independent and more mainstream comics. He is the writer of “Midnighter” for DC Comics and of “Virgil,” which was published by Image. The characters are also on ends of a spectrum: Midnighter, who was created as a Batman analogue, is out and thrives on his high-octane adventures around the globe. Virgil is closeted, suffocating and suffering in homophobic Jamaica.

“Midnighter is not in the closet about anything,” Mr. Orlando said. “If he’s buying latkes, he’s still Midnighter.”

In between the hero’s high stakes and extreme adventures, the series has been peppered with refreshingly normal moments of Midnighter’s domestic life: He’s been shown using a dating app, being sexually active and beginning a relationship. He also has a flirty, frenemy relationship with Dick Grayson, the longtime ally of Batman. “They are a violently acrobatic ‘Odd Couple,’” Mr. Orlando said.

The writer, who is bisexual, said his goal was to make Midnighter’s sexuality just one part of the character: “You don’t want to have African-American books. You don’t want gay books. You just want books. You want themes integrated into the story.”

“Flutter,” written by Jennie Wood and drawn by Jeff McComsey, is like a mash-up of “My So-Called Life” and “Buffy the Vampire Slayer.” It tells the story of 15-year-old Lily who transforms into a boy to win the heart of the girl. In 2013, The Advocate called the book “one of the year’s best L.G.B.T. graphic novels.”

The graphic novel series, published by 215 Ink, was inspired in part by Ms. Wood’s time growing up in Salisbury, N.C. “It came from me imagining that life would be better as a guy,” she said. Her male cousins would frequently bring their dates to the local movie theater to make out. “I wasn’t even out to myself at the time,” she said. “The thought of bringing a girl to a movie was not even an option. It still is not in some places.”

Ms. Wood, who now lives in Boston with her girlfriend of 10 years, said she has met a lot of supportive fans — straight, gay and transgender — at comic book conventions around the country. But she knows that the story is not for all audiences. “You put something out there and you have to let it go,” she said. “It won’t resonate with everyone. I don’t know if I would want it to.”

A series that defies easy description could be the best way to talk about “Love and Rockets” by the brothers Gilbert and Jaime (and sometimes Mario) Hernandez. The two main characters in Jaime’s story, about Latina friends in Los Angeles, are “a bisexual and a butch lesbian. This became my favorite comic instantly,” said Tara Avery, the publisher of Stacked Deck Press.

“This love letter from California changed my life,” she said, adding that it helped inspire her to be a cartoonist. Ms. Avery founded Stacked Deck this year specifically to publish gay-themed material. “Having our own publishing house was important to better represent ourselves and to present our world and our comics to the reading public,” she said.

Last month, the company began a Kickstarter campaign in support of an “Alphabet” anthology, which will spotlight the work of writers, artists and cartoonists who will exemplify every letter in the L.G.B.T. rainbow or, as Ms. Avery puts it, the “alphabet soup.” Part of the impetus of the campaign was to celebrate 10 years of the Prism Comics Queer Press Grant, which supports emerging gay cartoonists.

Ms. Avery, who is bisexual and transgender, said one of her favorite parts of the project is the coloring book of real-life gay heroes offered to some Kickstarter backers. “It will have people who were queer and maybe some who aren’t known for their queerness,” she said.

Iceman was certainly not known for being gay when he first appeared in 1963, but that is true for most superheroes back then. But what will come next?

“Every character has to carry the weight of everyone’s expectations, because there just aren’t enough characters to represent a diverse range of desires and experiences,” wrote Andrew Wheeler, the editor in chief of Comics Alliance, a website that covers the comic book industry. “We need to get from some to enough. And really, we’ll know we’ve achieved success when Captain America can have a boyfriend, and Wonder Woman can have a girlfriend. For queer representation in superhero comics, that’s what success looks like.”

LOS ANGELES — It was a typical Tuesday for Chris Hardwick, the excitable ringmaster of nerd culture.

Most people know him as the host of AMC’s “Talking Dead,” which has 6.5 million viewers each week, but on this March day the stand-up comedian, podcast pioneer and digital media entrepreneur was devoting a 16-hour stint to the geekier outposts of his empire. In the writers’ room at “@Midnight,” the Comedy Central game show in which he and guest comedians riff on Internet culture, Mr. Hardwick cracked jokes about the just-announced return of Harrison Ford as Indiana Jones. Across the studio lot, he recorded his weekly Nerdist podcast with the comedian and musician Reggie Watts, confessing that weed-induced paranoia keeps him from smoking pot. And late in the evening, he delivered new material about make-out burps, temptress nannies and Linux-based operating systems at the stand-up comedy workshop he hosts in the back of a Hollywood comics store.

“I’ve just channeled all that energy that went into drinking into time-management skills,” said Mr. Hardwick, 44, of his packed-to-the-gills schedule (he’s been sober for nearly 13 years).

After riding high in the 1990s as a co-host of MTV’s dating show, “Singled Out,” only to see his career sputter for the next decade, he decided to embrace his obsessions with zombies, superheroes, video games and tech. And with his instinctive understanding of connecting with fans over social media, he’s transformed those once-niche interests into an ever-growing kingdom.

In the process, he’s become the model of an entertainment brand for a multiscreen generation, seeding every sort of outlet and venue (no matter how small) with a constant barrage of fanboy content. Besides the millions who watch him each week on “Talking Dead” after every episode of “The Walking Dead” (and starting on Sunday, April 10, “Fear the Walking Dead”), 5.5 million people download his Nerdist podcast each month, while the Nerdist website draws close to 10 million visitors. He has 2.8 million followers on Twitter and another million on Instagram. Then there’s his embrace of Snapchat, Periscope, Facebook Live and Twitch. As nerd culture has become more mainstream, he is its attractive, welcoming emissary.

And later this year, he will try to cross over to network television when he hosts an NBC trivia game show called “The Wall.”

“Chris has been able to build a brand because he is genuine, and authentic,” said Thomas Tull, the chief executive of Legendary Entertainment, the company behind “Jurassic World” and the Christopher Nolan Batman trilogy. (It bought Nerdist Industries in 2012 and in turn was purchased in January by a Chinese conglomerate for $3.5 billion.) “In a world with plenty of white noise, he cuts through because he loves what he does, and the fans sense that.”

Of course, the building of a media empire comes with its share of possible pitfalls. If Mr. Hardwick gets stretched so thin he can’t keep up with the latest twists in the Marvel Universe or the time-jumps of Doctor Who, his bond with the audience could fray. After all, his fans know a real nerd when they see one. Here’s what it was like to follow him around for a week.

On March 14 — 3/14, for the numerically inclined — geeks around the world celebrated Pi Day. To commemorate the occasion, the “@Midnight” writers teed up a groan-inducing joke for Mr. Hardwick to begin the show.

“Nothing makes me hotter than dividing the circumference of a circle by its diameter,” Mr. Hardwick said. “It’s the only thing that can bring me to cli-math.” (Puns, preferably drenched in sexual innuendo, are a favorite of Mr. Hardwick’s.) “That, and reciting pi to the one-hundredth decimal.”

During rehearsal that afternoon, Mr. Hardwick suddenly splayed his fingers over his closed eyes and reeled off, rapid fire, pi to more than 100 places.

The show’s writers and producers, jaded sorts, began to clap. A “wow” was even heard.

“You’ve always said you were a nerd, but I didn’t believe it till now,” said Josh McDermitt, who plays the mullet-sporting Eugene on “The Walking Dead,” when the host repeated the trick on the show.

Mr. Hardwick was one of those chess club kids who actually got stuffed in a garbage can. Nine pounds of Dungeons & Dragons dice live in a vase in his “@Midnight” dressing room. And his love of the British science-fiction show “Doctor Who” is so intense that half of the cake at his August wedding (to the actress and publishing heiress Lydia Hearst) will be a re-creation of the Tardis, the time machine masquerading as a police call box.

But for the first chunk of Mr. Hardwick’s career, such animating interests had little connection to the jobs he filled. His first break came in 1995, when he, along with Jenny McCarthy, was chosen to host “Singled Out.”

The show lasted three years, and Mr. Hardwick’s image in Hollywood seemed cemented: the snarky comedian trafficking in generic pop-culture jokes. He filmed a string of unsuccessful pilots, often as the host of a dating show. There were auditions for lots of Jack Black-type roles on sitcoms, at least until he quit drinking and got in shape. (In his self-help book, “The Nerdist Way,” Mr. Hardwick jokes that through his dissolute 20s “I was consuming a baby elephant’s weight in alcohol every day.”) And the smattering of TV and movie appearances (like “Zoey 101,” “House of a Thousand Corpses”) did little to provide professional fulfillment.

It all came to a head in 2007. He couldn’t get work, his stand-up career was going nowhere, and he owned a house he could barely afford. “Early one morning, I just had this moment of clarity: I need to just do the things I love,” he said. “At least I’ll be happy.”

Embracing his inner nerd, Mr. Hardwick immediately got himself a job hosting “Wired Science” on PBS. Next came a gadget reviewer gig on G4’s “Attack of the Show,” which led to “Web Soup.” His zombie expertise, and a connection with a top AMC executive from his MTV days, helped him land “Talking Dead” in 2011, and “@Midnight” followed in 2013. All the while, the Nerdist blog he began in 2008 grew into a full-fledged digital media company, with a news website, nearly 50 podcasts, a YouTube channel and even an improv and sketch comedy academy.

That Mr. Hardwick now has a career that allows him to hang out with the likes of Weird Al Yankovic never ceases to amaze him: “So much of my life are moments my 12-year-old self wouldn’t be able to fully process.”

“How’s everyone feeling?” Mr. Hardwick asked as he convened what he calls his “weekly ritualistic therapy session.”

The studio audience for “Talking Dead” on March 13 had just watched a particularly gruesome episode of “The Walking Dead.” Dozens of people died, many of them burned alive on the killing floor of a slaughterhouse. But Mr. Hardwick found a bright side: No one from the core cast numbered among the casualties.

On display was what makes Mr. Hardwick an in-demand host (and moderator for Comic-Con panels): his natural rapport with his guests. Stand-up comedians don’t always make the best television hosts. They’re typically both the author and executor of their material, not collaborators, and their interviewing skills often leave much to be desired.

Mr. Hardwick is a good listener, and his deep familiarity with his guests’ work allows him to be quick on his feet. “He is very adept at making his guests funnier,” said Kent Alterman, who’s the president of original programming at Comedy Central. He also likes to hang out with them after the show. After tapings of “Talking Dead,” he revels in taking his guests down into the bowels of CBS Television City so they can (surreptitiously) spin the wheel from “The Price Is Right.”

Mr. Hardwick, who was glued to game shows in his youth like “Match Game” and “Joker’s Wild,” will get to host his first non-comic one when NBC airs the LeBron James-produced “The Wall.” Two-person teams — chosen for their inspiring back stories — will answer trivia questions as a ball is dropped down a giant wall lined with slots marked with monetary values.

But today’s host — or any rising entertainment personality, really — can’t just call it a day when the TV taping is done.

So Mr. Hardwick quickly changed out of his Theory suit, plopped down on the couch with his laptop and opened his iPhone to a Facebook video app. It was time for a Facebook Live chat with “Talking Dead” fans.

Facebook, which recently ramped up the ability to post live video, has been urging celebrities to try it out to connect with fans. Mr. Hardwick accepted the challenge, and for 35 minutes, he gamely responded to the comments and questions flowing in. He theorized on whether zombies can starve to death. He insisted he didn’t know who might die in “The Walking Dead” season finale. (He watches each week’s episode only the weekend it appears.) He offered job and relationship advice. And he named his weapon of choice for a zombie apocalypse: a rubber chicken with acid in its beak.

“This is basically ‘Talking Talking Dead,’” Mr. Hardwick said.

Though he mentioned he’d be doing the session at the end of “Talking Dead,” all told it drew more than 110,000 viewers and 23,000 comments.

The imperatives of being an entertainment personality now require more than unmediated conversations with the audience. There has to be new content, tailored to the different social-media platforms.

At the SXSW festival last month in Austin, Tex., Mr. Hardwick filmed an episode of “@Midnight” that appeared only on Periscope, Twitter’s live streaming video project. There’s also a weekly “@Midnight” show for Snapchat called “Stupid Points.”

“We had it so easy for so long because we only ever had to focus on one platform,” Mr. Hardwick said. “But particularly in television, you’ve got to chase the audience a bit.”

In the back of Meltdown Comics, on a forlorn stretch of Sunset Boulevard in Hollywood, Mr. Hardwick popped onto the stage of the Nerdist Showroom just past 9 p.m. on Tuesday night. Beta Test, a regular comedy workshop he runs for himself and his comedian pals, was now in session.

Mr. Hardwick loves mixing it up with the audience at his comedy gigs. Greeting the folks individually in the first row, he riffed rapid-fire about their occupations. To the woman who said she was on sabbatical: “That’s a very romantic term for unemployed. It makes it sound like it was your choice.”

But Mr. Hardwick’s barbs are directed more at himself than at the audience. It’s all up for discussion — his anxiety, his love life — as his comedy has become much more personal in recent years. The Funcomfortable Tour, which culminated in January with two shows at the Palace of Fine Arts Theater in San Francisco (filmed for a Comedy Central special on April 30), dealt with his most cringe-inducing moments.

“Some of the things that I actually admit on stage are kind of odd when I think about it,” Mr. Hardwick said.

Like losing his virginity to a blowup doll in high school.

Steve Martin and Joan Rivers were among Mr. Hardwick’s comedy gods growing up. Raising him in Memphis, his parents — his father a professional bowler and his mother a real estate agent — placed no restrictions on what he could watch or listen to, even buying him Mr. Martin’s albums. When his father took him along to tournaments in Las Vegas, he remembers seeing Ms. Rivers in concert. He wasn’t yet 10.

Mr. Hardwick’s comedy, though, is more nakedly autobiographical than theirs — the death of his father in 2013 runs like a backbone through the “Funcomfortable” special. He comes across to his fans as one of them, even if he is marrying Ms. Hearst and just moved into an $11 million home with breathtaking views of the city. (Mr. Hardwick’s design sense — he calls it “Victorian gentleman serial killer” — meshes with Ms. Hearst’s; she owns a creepy wheelchair straight out of “The Changeling.”)

Mr. Hardwick’s stand-up career has him jetting around the country nearly every weekend for a gig. And those 50 dates don’t include his drop-in sets at clubs in Los Angeles. “If you sat next to Chris on an airplane and asked him what he did for a living, he would say he was a stand-up comedian,” said his manager, Alex Murray, of Brillstein Entertainment Partners.

Mr. Hardwick’s commitments add up to one seriously crazed schedule. One that could damage, or derail, a painstakingly built career built on authenticity. If he doesn’t know as much as his fans (or more) about the their favorite TV shows, movies, comics and other hallmarks of geek culture, he could be pegged as a poser — or “a fake nerd” as some of his online critics put it — who isn’t worthy of their attention.

Mr. Hardwick is aware of the problem. He’s cut back on the number of Nerdist podcasts he records each week, from three to one. He doesn’t play the time-sucking video games he dearly loves much anymore. And he insists he turns down plenty of projects.

“I’m not so psychotic that I don’t know how to say no to things,” he said.

Earlier on Tuesday, Mr. Hardwick arrived just before 6 p.m. at the offices of Funny or Die, the humor website and production company that boasts Will Ferrell and the director Adam McKay among its co-founders. It was the second official gathering of Spitball, a previously unannounced venture that aims to offer fledgling companies media consulting and comedic video-production services.

It was not your typical business meeting. Yes, there may have been cash-flow projections displayed on a screen, and buzzwords like “public facing” bandied about. But there were also tasteless jokes about colonoscopies.

Diversifying outside the entertainment world is the motivation for Mr. Hardwick and his partners, which include Funny or Die. The pitch: The people behind Spitball understand both comedy and social media and how to combine the two to build a brand. “The advantage we have is we know how to talk to people,” Mr. Hardwick said.

Spitball is but one part of Mr. Hardwick’s plan to build his off-camera career.

His latest contract with Comedy Central calls for him to be a digital guru of sorts for the network. “It’s great for us to tap into his brain,” said the network’s Mr. Alterman.

And he’s getting into TV production himself, through Nerdist Industries. Syfy nixed “Nerdist News,” but a pilot at Comedy Central with the magician Justin Willman remains in the running. (An animation company he co-owns has a pilot, “Danger & Eggs,” on Amazon.)

Most ambitious among the company’s expansion plans is a streaming video network that would seek to bind its audience closer together, and in the process, to Nerdist. “As connective as the Internet is,” Mr. Hardwick said, “it’s actually remarkably isolating. Because you interact with it alone.”

The Internet can be a harsh place, full of nasty personal attacks. Mr. Hardwick, a digital evangelist if there ever was one, gets particularly exercised about such viciousness. Discussing his philosophy for the podcast, he said he “always wants people to leave feeling a little bit better than when they got there.” And that optimistic maxim serves as a guiding principle.

His celebratory tendencies get him bashed regularly on social media as a cheerleader — don’t turn to Mr. Hardwick if you’re looking for a brutal takedown of “Batman v Superman” — but he wears those criticisms proudly.

“I feel there’s enough negativity, there’s enough cynicism, there’s enough walled garden and exclusionary behavior,” he said. “You can get that so many places.”

There’s none of that snobbishness in Mr. Hardwick’s empire.

“The soul of it, if I were really breaking it down psychologically, is pretty simple: I always felt excluded when I was in grade school, and I wanted to create something where no one would ever have to feel that way.”

It’s beginning to look a little like Christmas in Joseph Koch’s Comic Book Warehouse.

In classic Koch style, a Christmas tree was suspended from the ceiling, with a bloody, severed ghoul’s head hanging (by the eyelids, of course) from the side.

This passes as mistletoe for customers entering Mr. Koch’s world: a cavernous second-floor space that he has run for the past 30 years, in an industrial section of Sunset Park, Brooklyn.

It houses one of the largest collections of comic books in the country. Also on offer are memorabilia, action figures, books, records, posters and the like.

It is a back issue browsing paradise, with comics filling long white cardboard boxes, placed on shelves extending high overhead.

Mr. Koch, 66, refers to the place as his “Warehouse of Wonders,” with a vast inventory that he calls “The Avalanche.” It consists of “the largest assemblage of sci-fi, comics and fantasy genre-related ephemera on the planet,” according to Mr. Koch, whose trove nevertheless remains relatively obscure outside the world of hard-core comics lovers.

For one thing, Mr. Koch has run it as a mail-order service, limiting much of the browsing to customers with appointments.

For another, it can be bewildering simply to find the warehouse, which lies between the Gowanus Expressway and the waterfront. The surrounding streets bustle with forklifts, flatbeds and tractor-trailers.

The address is 206 41st Street, at Second Avenue, but there is no sign outside, and the entrance is an unmarked door around the corner from a live poultry shop. Gadzooks, Mr. Koch, does one need the tingling senses of Spider-Man to find you?

“Ah, you’re pointing out a major flaw in the system,” he acknowledged, sitting in his office on Tuesday. He was dressed typically, in shorts and running shoes, with a T-shirt pulled over his dress shirt. His glasses were perched on his head, amid a full, wild thatch of white hair.

Mr. Koch said he planned on adding a sign and other amenities, in his effort to shift to a more open format for walk-in customers, especially on weekends.

Recent additions include a few chairs and sofas wedged into the aisles, some free promotions and an open snack bar (which is actually the employee food shelf, with some snacks in plastic jars, and make-your-own Tang and iced tea).

Even with the amenities, he said, “Almost everyone is overwhelmed when they come in here.”

Mr. Koch, who is also one of the owners of the comic store Forbidden Planet near Union Square in Manhattan, lives in Carroll Gardens, Brooklyn, and is married to Madeline Joyce, a stockbroker he met through a friend and fellow comic book aficionado.

“She has some questions about the sanity of what I do,” he said with a laugh.

Mr. Koch said he grew up in Kiel, Germany, the son of a Latvian-born mother who was a doctor, and a father who worked in construction.

Mr. Koch said when he was a little boy, his family immigrated to Trenton, N.J., where he was kicked out of kindergarten for “kissing girls.” The family returned to Germany for several years and came back to Trenton when he was 10, he said. He became a comic book enthusiast and proficient soccer player; he attended Columbia, where he played fullback on the soccer team. Later he drove a yellow cab to make ends meet.

His younger brother Pete Koch — now a successful purveyor of comic book art — suggested that he get into the comics business.

The elder Mr. Koch ran Dragons Den comics in Yonkers and acquired his inventory by roving the country in old station wagons. He would rent motel rooms and put an ad in the local papers, listing his hotel room phone number.

The warehouse is something of a salon, a continual comic book colloquium that Mr. Koch calls “The Endless Convention.” He is constantly trading stories and arcana with both his customers and his staff members, who include a former Marvel Comics editor, a former employee at Village Comics in Greenwich Village, a former college professor and various other enthusiasts, who volunteer their time in exchange for comic books.

Mr. Koch said he does not specialize in precious rare issues as much as practice a “bottom-feeding operation,” buying out shuttered comic shops and private collection of all sizes.

“We buy just about anything,” Mr. Koch said, “If it’s pop culture, we buy it.”

He largely ships in bulk to wholesalers overseas, he said. So while he may be less well known in New York, “if you go to a comic book store in Iceland,” he said, “they’ll probably know who I am,”

In his office, a customer was now calling from the street, unable to find the entrance. “I know it’s a little confusing,” Mr. Koch said.

Then came a call from a man who was living in a van and had to sell off crates of records to make space. Mr. Koch offered him 25 cents per record, and the seller arrived within minutes.

Mr. Koch looked over the warehouse and admitted he had a ways to go to make the place browser-friendly.

“At some point,” he said. “I’ll have to get a little serious.”

The U.S. senator says that while the difficult process of writing his own book, “United,” “didn’t ultimately break me, there were times I wanted to yell, times when I pounded my desk.”

What books are currently on your night stand?

None, actually. My night stand in Newark and my crash pad in D.C. are bare of books. But on the floor by my couch, on my card table in front of the TV, in the backpack I lug around D.C. — I have plenty. Too many! Some I’m reading now are “The Arabs,” by Eugene Rogan; “The Power of Habit,” by Charles Duhigg; “Act of Congress,” by Robert Kaiser; “Team of Rivals,” by Doris Kearns Goodwin. I also just started in on “The Way of the SEAL,” by Mark Divine. Like I said, I tend to be in many books at once.

What’s the last great book you read?

“Just Mercy,” by Bryan Stevenson. This is one of those books that I have been thrusting on so many of my friends. Bryan’s book informed me, inspired me in my work and moved me emotionally. I read it and then listened to it on audiobook because I wanted to hear him read it. I remember grocery shopping in D.C., listening to him read as I went up and down the aisles, and tearing up as I was grabbing cans of vegan chili. Bryan is an extraordinary American, and his book challenges us to be a greater nation, one that lives up to our highest ideals and not our lesser angels.

Which writers — novelists, playwrights, critics, journalists, poets — working today do you admire most?

Let’s see. Playwright, I’d say Lin-Manuel Miranda — “Hamilton” is one of the best things I’ve ever seen on a stage, and for a guy who loves American history, hip-hop and theater, it was pure bliss. Journalists? The person that comes to mind right now is Ta-Nehisi Coates. His articles — and especially his book “Between the World and Me” — have been incredibly important to me this year, as I have been thinking and writing a lot about race and the promise of America. I admire and respect him, even though (or because) I find myself disagreeing with some of what he writes and some of the conclusions he draws. It is authors like Ta-Nehisi and Eddie Glaude, author of “Democracy in Black: How Race Still Enslaves the American Soul,” who challenge me, force me to re-examine my conclusions and defend my ideas. They are two peers in age who come at their writing with a profound sense of urgency; they might not put it this way, but I find their deep, nuanced and detailed critiques of this nation a sign of sincere love for their country. As James Baldwin wrote, “I love America more than any other country in the world, and, exactly for this reason, I insist on the right to criticize her perpetually.”

What are the best books you’ve read about American politics?

That’s an easy one: Robert Caro’s “Master of the Senate.”

What genres do you especially enjoy reading? And which do you avoid?

I read almost exclusively nonfiction now. But when I was young, I loved reading science fiction and fantasy. I devoured everything from “The Chronicles of Narnia” to Edgar Rice Burroughs’s books about John Carter the Virginian, who was transported to Mars. Today, I leave my science fiction and fantasy for the movie theater and stick to books about history, policy, biography. I seek true stories that inspire.

What moves you most in a work of literature?

The human struggle. The fight against adversity, people who face tremendous odds but yet succeed — they adapt, learn, grow and find ways to serve and elevate others. When I was young, my parents directed me toward books about African-American history. Books like “The Autobiography of Malcolm X” and “Up From Slavery” became pathways for me to develop a broader love and celebration of stories of the human spirit.

What’s the last book that made you cry?

This might sound painfully self-serving, but my own book, “United.” Writing it was far, far more difficult than I had expected. I’d never written anything this long before, and there were times when I really got stuck. Staying up late, getting up early, and using every spare moment to write definitely wore me down. And though the writing process didn’t ultimately break me, there were times I wanted to yell, times when I pounded my desk. But the crying did come. I cried as I wrote some of the stories that forced me to relive the more emotional moments of my life. There are two parts — one involving the death of a mentor and the other when I had to apologize to a person I terribly disrespected — that, every time I went back to working on them, brought tears to my eyes. The process of writing a book has given me a whole new reverence for writers. Mechanically, it is a brutal process; emotionally, it’s incredibly healing.

The last book that made you laugh?

“Living With a SEAL,” by Jesse Itzler. It was unexpectedly funny. He really grabs you and drags you into his experience. One of the main lessons I took from the book — we can all push ourselves far more than we do — is delivered with a sense of humor that actually makes me more motivated than I would have been if it wasn’t so much fun.

The last book that made you furious?

Michelle Alexander’s “The New Jim Crow.” I opened it feeling like I knew a lot about mass incarceration, but she presents her case with such an unrelenting avalanche of evidence and data that I found myself even angrier at the depth and breadth of the problem. It is the one book I have given to my whole staff, and along with Senator Tom Harkin, I bought copies for every one of our Senate colleagues. I am happy that the urgency to reform our broken criminal justice system has found allies all across the political spectrum. To read that book is to conclude that this broken system is one of the most shameful, damning and tragic realities that currently exist in our nation.

Tell us about your favorite poem.

Langston Hughes is my favorite poet. Picking my favorite poem of his is tremendously difficult — there are many that have spoken deeply to me and have inspired me. One of my all-time favorites is “Dreams” — “Hold fast to dreams / For if dreams die / Life is a broken-winged bird / That cannot fly.” Hughes challenges us with such stark eloquence here, reminding us why imagination and aspiration are so important. Another poem of his I really like — especially at a time when national unity is so important — is: “There is a dream in the land / . . . This dream today embattled, / With its back against the wall — / To save the dream for one / It must be saved for ALL.”

And your favorite movie adaptation of a book.

Hmmm. I don’t know if I have a favorite. Most are just disappointing, once you’ve read the book. One I remember being excited about was “The Lovely Bones.” I was in a long-distance relationship, and my girlfriend decided we should read books together, so she chose first. I was not happy about her choice at first and tried to dissuade her, but to no avail. Before I knew it we were reading the book out loud to each other, over the phone, and I was drawn in; soon we were reading chapters on our own, and she was telling me to slow down and not get too far ahead. It was a beautiful, emotionally fulfilling book that I recommended to many, many others after I read it. So when the movie came out, it had absolutely no chance of living up to that experience. It’s so hard for any director to capture the grandeur of your imaginings; so hard for an actor to compete with characters who were first animated by the mind; no two-hour movie can encapsulate the breath and bounty of a book.

Who is your favorite fictional hero or heroine? Your favorite antihero or villain?

If I had to pick one, and it is painful to do so, it is Superman. I read comics (read graphic novels) as a kid and was drawn into the characters. I still love superheroes and am so happy that the Marvel and DC franchises have been given renewed life and vibrancy. I am enjoying the movies and TV programs and still have, in my home, big, colorful encyclopedias of both superhero universes that have definitely been well worn.

If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?

It would be presumptuous of me to recommend a book to him — and the truth is, I’d much rather take a book recommendation from him than give one. I have great respect for the president, and being that he was a senator, I would want to know a recommendation he had for me at the beginning of my Senate career. But O.K., if you forced me, how about: “Bald Men Always Come Out on Top: 101 Ways to Use Your Head and Win With Skin.” I haven’t actually read that one, but it would be a gentle hint to him, basically saying: Come on, Mr. President, join the ranks of the bold bald men in America. Liberate your scalp. Let the gray go.

What author, living or dead, would you most like to meet, and what would you like to know?

James Baldwin. There is a raw honesty about him, an ability to see detail and complexity, a gift that he has in the way he could assess society and dissect it in a way that could help his readers — his students — to learn about society and themselves. He writes from a foundation of love and reverence for all people. I wish he were alive today. I would love to have a day with him, to share a meal, take a walk and delve into his perspective on our nation today. I still remember the first time I read “The Fire Next Time.” It was a hard book, with a tough perspective on race in America. But then in the end, from amidst the brokenness and jagged pieces he exposed, he was able to bring me to a high again. By confronting all the mess, he was better able to elevate hope and love and promote healing and redemption. The last page or so of that book are some of my favorite pages of literature. They’re like a tattoo on my heart: I know that what I am asking is impossible. But in our time, as in every time, the impossible is the least one can demand — and one is, after all, emboldened by the spectacle of human history in general and American Negro history in particular, for it testified to nothing less than the perpetual achievement of the impossible.

A select guide to cultural events for children, teenagers and families.

‘The Amazing Max’ (Saturday and Sunday) Max Darwin, a.k.a. the Amazing Max, may come across like the M.C. at a raucous bar mitzvah party, but he does know his craft, and now he’s bringing it back to New York City for another round of shows. In this hourlong magic performance, he performs feats like mind reading, making objects disappear and then reappear, and sending coins raining from various parts of the body. The show includes lots of audience participation. (Through May 1.) At 3:30 p.m., Theater at Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan, 866-811-4111, theamazingmax.com.

‘America to Zanzibar: Muslim Cultures Near and Far’ (continuing) You have to look hard for positive representations of the Muslim world in popular culture, and even harder for a way to make it accessible to the youngest Americans. This exhibition, at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan, aims to teach visitors 10 and under about a variety of Muslim communities. Divided into five sections, the show includes a global marketplace, an exploration of trade routes, a courtyard area and an investigation of architecture through different mosque styles. The final section is devoted to an American home, represented by a living room filled with objects donated by Muslims in the United States. The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

‘Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces’ (continuing) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing Middle Eastern artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (around 1900) where young archaeologists can dress in costume and portray early-20th-century immigrants to Palestine. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

‘The Art and Whimsy of Mo Willems’ (through Sept. 25) Mr. Willems is author of the much-loved picture book “Don’t Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!,” along with many other works. There’s no reason not to let the pigeon drive this new exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, though, and so it does, along with Mr. Willems’s other creatures, like Elephant and Piggie, Cat the Cat and Knuffle Bunny. The show explores his creative process — it includes animation cels, sketches, wire sculptures and a video — and how New York often became his muse. Family programs are scheduled throughout the run, including readings of Mr. Willems’s books every weekday (except Mondays) at 2 p.m. and every Sunday at 11:30 a.m. This Saturday, from 4:30 to 7:30 p.m., the museum also offers a meet-and-greet with Elephant and Piggie. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

Awesome Innovations Week (Saturday through May 1) This festival at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan celebrates human ingenuity, from small-scale inventions like the camera obscura to huge machines like the airplane. Each day will offer workshops in different disciplines, including optics, navigation, culinary arts, cryptography and music, with a chance to learn about the field and also create a work or device to take home. Activities will include making 3-D hologram displays for smartphones; concocting a Middle Eastern recipe; constructing model aircraft; and creating a secret code to use on a treasure hunt throughout the museum. The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org; a complete schedule is on the website.

‘Beauty and the Beast’ (Saturday, Sunday and Tuesday) Yes, it’s that tale as old as time, but Literally Alive Children’s Theater has put a different spin on it in this revival of the musical adaptation by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell. This version, which closes on Tuesday, draws heavily on the original story, with dream sequences in which Beauty, while in the Beast’s castle, encounters his human self in her dreams. Tickets include a preshow workshop in which children meet cast members and make Beauty or Beast masks to take home. Saturday at 3 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m.; Tuesday at 2 p.m.; the workshop starts one hour before each performance; Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, at Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, 866-811-4111, literallyalive.com.

‘Bello Mania’ (Saturday and Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) Bello is Bello Nock, the clown with the towering brush cut who first attained fame at the Big Apple Circus, then at Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey. Now he’s returned to the New Victory Theater with his own show, newly revamped. It includes not just comedy but also his gasp-inducing aerial acts, like swaying on a 44-foot-high pole over the audience members’ heads. His family works on the production and one member — his daughter, Annaliese — also performs. (Through May 1) At 11 a.m. and 4 p.m., also, this Wednesday and Thursday at 2 p.m., 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org.

‘Brooklyn Sewers: What’s Up Down There?’ (Through May 29) When it comes to subterranean infrastructure projects, New York City’s subway system seems to get all the attention. But a group of teenage curators at the Brooklyn Historical Society would like to introduce you to another underground marvel: Brooklyn’s sewer system, one of the city’s oldest and most extensive infrastructure projects. This exhibition explores engineering conundrums and courtroom battles and tells the story of the sewer system through photographs, drawings and maps. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org.

‘Connected Worlds’ (continuing) Human choices and actions have an impact on the world’s ecosystems, but people usually can’t see the effects as they happen. That isn’t true in this permanent exhibition in the renovated Great Hall of the New York Hall of Science. Consisting of huge screens (one is 38 feet tall), the show depicts six interconnected environments with a shared water supply. With the help of technology that responds to gestures, “Connected Worlds” allows children to use simple motions to plant, harvest, cut trees, create clouds and make other changes in the projected landscapes — and see how the native flora and fauna fare. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org.

‘The Discovery of King Tut’ (Through May 15) The Egyptian pharaoh Tutankhamen died when he was only a teenager, but the magnificent riches of his tomb have made him immortal in the public imagination. This touring show at Premier Exhibitions 5th Avenue recreates Tut’s tomb as it was when the British archaeologist Howard Carter discovered it in 1922. The display includes reconstructions of the tomb’s three chambers and reproductions of more than 1,000 treasures and ritual objects, accompanied by video documentaries and texts. 417 Fifth Avenue, at 38th Street, tutnyc.com.

Dumbo Family Festival (Saturday) The Dumbo area of Brooklyn may be known for artists’ lofts and tech start-ups, but it has places to play, too, and those green expanses will be the focus of this free neighborhood celebration, presented by the Brooklyn Bridge Park Conservancy. Children can kick up their heels at a family dance party; join in classic outdoor games; enjoy musical performances by the groups Mil’s Trills and Moona Luna; attend a show by Volunteers for Wildlife; enter their pets in a Dog Olympics; and decorate a model of the Brooklyn Bridge with painted flowers. There will also be indoor fun at the Environmental Education Center, with an aquarium filled with East River creatures. From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Main Street and John Street sections of Brooklyn Bridge Park, John Street and Jay Street, brooklynbridgepark.org/events.

‘The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation’ (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Thursday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

‘The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe’ (Saturday and Wednesday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn’t two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That’s what Jesse Corbin and Erin Layton do in the Off Broadway Family Theater’s first production, le Clanché du Rand’s adaptation of C. S. Lewis’s classic novel. (The run is open-ended.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

‘Little Red’s Hood’ (Friday through Thursday) This isn’t your grandma’s “Little Red Riding Hood.” A new production from the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater, written and directed by Liam Hurley, this show gives the old-fashioned fairy tale a hip urban sensibility. Here, Little Red is a smartphone-obsessed city kid, and the wolf, Wulfric, is a misunderstood dude with a weakness for sugar who tries to intercept her when she heads to the country to take cupcakes to Grandma. (Through June 26.) This week: Friday at 10:30 a.m. and noon; Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m.; Monday through Thursday at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts.

MoMA Art Lab: Process (continuing) The Museum of Modern Art is offering children a new way to play: Instead of pretending to be, say, Batman or Katniss Everdeen, how about imagining yourself as Ellsworth Kelly or Louise Nevelson? The place to try on these identities is the latest MoMA Art Lab, intended not only to acquaint young visitors with the works in the museum’s collection but also to help them relate to the methods and meanings behind them. The space explores the artistic process through stations where children can, for example, imitate Kelly’s gridlike designs or recreate and reinterpret a Nevelson sculpture. There are also opportunities to sketch a still life, design a chair, work with unusual materials and listen to tapes of artists discussing their work. (Through Aug. 31.) The Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan, 212-708-9805, moma.org/artlab.

Music in Motion (Saturday) That motion is the gentle rocking of a boat for this series of family neighborhood concerts presented by Bargemusic, the floating barge at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. As always, the material — announced just before the performance — is chamber music, but these programs differ in important ways from the regular Bargemusic fare: With unreserved seating, they last only an hour, include a post-show question-and-answer session with the musicians and are free. (Through May 28.) At 4 p.m. (doors open at 3:45), Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006, bargemusic.org.

‘My Superhero, Roberto Clemente’ (Saturday) Roberto Clemente (1934-72) may not have had superpowers, but he was certainly a hero, both on and off the baseball field. Battling discrimination throughout his sports career, he became the first Latino athlete inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame, and was killed in the crash of a plane he had chartered to deliver aid to earthquake victims in Nicaragua. This bilingual children’s musical from Teatro SEA, written by Manuel Antonio Morán and Alejandro Zuleta, and closing this weekend, focuses on a boy named Bobby, who, with his friends, discovers Clemente’s legacy. At 3 p.m., Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children’s Theater, Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, 212-529-1545, teatrosea.org.

Nitehawk Cinema’s Little Bookworms Series: ‘Chitty Chitty Bang Bang’ (Saturday and Sunday) Eating at a movie usually means popcorn and candy, but Nitehawk Cinema in Brooklyn provides real meal service at tables in each of its theaters. It also offers a brunch series for children, with films based on classic books. This weekend it presents a children’s novel by Ian Fleming, which was turned into a screenplay by Roald Dahl and the director Ken Hughes — what more could young imaginations ask for? That’s “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,” (1968), which stars Dick Van Dyke as a struggling inventor and father. He turns an old car into the vehicle of the title: a magical flying machine. At 11 a.m., 136 Metropolitan Avenue, between Berry Street and Wythe Avenue, Williamsburg, 718-384-3980, nitehawkcinema.com.

‘Our City’ (through Sept. 4) New York is a huge metropolis, but it can feel surprisingly intimate in its neighborhoods. This new exhibition at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum explores the concept of those communities, encouraging young visitors to think about what makes their streets distinctive. The show incorporates the work of contemporary artists in exhibits like Elizabeth Hamby’s “Alphabet City,” which investigates the architecture of housing developments; Priscilla Stadler’s “Fragile City,” which looks at the replacement of old institutions by new construction; and Rusty Zimmerman’s “Free Portrait Project,” which represents the faces of Crown Heights residents. 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, 718-735-4400, brooklynkids.org.

‘The Peanuts Movie’ and Family Workshops (Saturday through Thursday) The Museum of the Moving Image is inviting children who attend public school to spend their spring break with Charlie Brown, Lucie, Linus, Snoopy and the rest of the “Peanuts” gang. Daily, at 12:30 p.m., the museum is offering screenings of “The Peanuts Movie,” a chance to see Charlie try to win the heart of the little redheaded girl, and Snoopy try to defeat the Red Baron, all in 3-D. Also daily, at 2:30 p.m., the museum will hold “Mixed Up Comics,” a workshop, geared to ages 5 through 10, in which participants will design a character and weave a comic strip around their creations. (Workshop space is limited, and advance registration is encouraged.) 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us.

‘Rebel, Jedi, Princess, Queen: Star Wars and the Power of Costume: The Exhibition’ (through Sept. 5) Sure, the Millennium Falcon and all those weird planets were cool, but what about the robes, helmets and uniforms? Darth Vader wouldn’t have been the same without his heavy-breathing headgear, or Chewbacca without his yak hair and mohair exterior. This exhibition at Discovery Times Square features more than 70 costumes and artifacts from the “Star Wars” franchise, including the latest movie, “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.” The show also offers filmed interviews with designers and actors; sketches, photographs and notes; and a special-effects interactive in which visitors can see an image of themselves as a “Star Wars” character. 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com.

St. George Day Festival (Saturday) How can you celebrate St. George without a dragon? The Community Association of Tompkinsville Park Promoting Arts and Whimsy, the organization behind this event, promises a dragon, and it will have something to celebrate, too, because it isn’t going to be slain. Instead, this 35-foot-long creature will lead a 2 p.m. dragon parade, which all are invited to join, dressed as dragons or flower fairies or any kind of fantastical being. The free festival will also feature a Kids Zone, with workshops in music, dance and crafts, and an Earth Day Zone devoted to environmental conservation. From 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., rain or shine, Tompkinsville Park, Bay Street and Victory Boulevard, Tompkinsville, Staten Island, stgeorgedaysi.com.

Scholastic Art & Writing Awards: New York City Regional Exhibition (through May 30) Andy Warhol won one. So did Stephen King and Sylvia Plath. And Lena Dunham. They’re the Scholastic Art and Writing Awards, given annually to a select group of students in grades seven through 12. This free show — which brings the work of these young people to the Metropolitan Museum of Art — features more than 600 entries that received the Gold Key Award, the highest regional recognition. Hosted by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, it includes fashion design and mixed-media pieces, as well as painting, sculpture, poetry, essays and fiction. Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education, 212-535-7710, artandwriting.org.

‘Sew What?’ (through May 22) Threads cover, but they can also reveal: traditions, images, ideas, memories. This exhibition at the Children’s Museum of the Arts showcases the creations of a variety of artists using textile and fiber, including Louise Bourgeois, Eliza Kentridge, Nathan Vincent and Adrian Esparza. The show is accompanied by an interactive site-specific installation by Jeila Gueramian that combines textiles and lights, and “The Marvelous Mini-Clothesline,” a project that children can add to by making tiny models of their own clothes. 103 Charlton Street, between Hudson and Greenwich Streets, South Village, 212-274-0986, cmany.org.

‘Skippyjon Jones Snow What’ (Sunday) Skippyjon Jones, a Siamese cat, has always thought that he’s really a Chihuahua; the question this time is whether he can also convince himself that he’s a fairy tale prince. This production from Theatreworks USA, part of a weekend series at the Kaye Playhouse, adapts the latest entry in Judy Schachner’s book series about the conflicted Skippyjon into an hourlong musical for children 4 and older. A wry sendup of the “Snow White” fairy tale by Kevin Del Aguila and Eli Bolin, who did Theatreworks’s first Skippyjon adaptation, this show is every bit as clever, comical and boisterous. At 11 a.m., Kaye Playhouse, Hunter College, 68th Street, between Lexington and Park Avenues, 212-772-4448, twusa.org.

Spring Break Programs at the Museum of Modern Art (Monday through next Friday) School is out — well, New York City public school is — and painting, building, sketching and stitching are in, as the Museum of Modern Art presents a variety of programs for children on spring break. The fun begins on Monday with “Create, Build and Play With Feltro,” for ages 4 and up, devoted to exploring this brand of magnetic felt tiles. Tuesday offers “Mix It Up with Hervé Tullet,” also for ages 4 and up, at which Mr. Tullet, the Belgian children’s book author, will give a reading and then lead a collaborative painting project. Wednesday presents “A Stitch in Time,” which introduces basic embroidery techniques to those 6 and older, and Thursday features Samantha Friedman reading from her new children’s book, “What Degas Saw,” after which children 7 and older are invited to capture on paper the movements of the ballerina Dana Jacobson. The series concludes next Friday with “Pop! Goes the Easel,” a MoMA-inspired concert for ages 4 and up by the group Balthrop, Alabama. At 11 a.m., except for “Mix It Up,” which starts at 1 p.m. First come first served; sign-up begins in the Cullman lobby a half-hour before. Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan, 212-708-9805, moma.org/springbreak.

A Taste of Magic (Saturday) Would you like a side of sleight of hand with that burger? This show, developed by Magnets, a collective of local magicians, brings wizardry to the dinner table. Taking place at various restaurants, the presentation includes acts like mind reading and card tricks, which professionals perform close-up for guests; there’s also a cabaret-style show. And the admission price includes a full meal. (The series runs through May.) At 8 p.m., Gossip Bar and Restaurant, 733 Ninth Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets, Clinton, atasteofmagicnyc.com.

‘That Physics Show’ (Friday through Sunday) Dave Maiullo doesn’t use cards, sleight of hand or magic wands to achieve startling effects onstage; he just relies on Newton’s laws. Mr. Mailluo, for years a physics support specialist at Rutgers University, is the wizard behind this 90-minute Off Broadway show, which includes segments on motion, momentum, vacuum, friction, density and sound. Expect lots of liquid nitrogen — and lots of surprises. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Elektra Theater, 300 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 866-811-4111, thatphysicsshow.com.

‘Tiny Poets Time’ (Thursday) Toddlers may not be able to read, but they can certainly listen, and that makes them old enough to appreciate poems. This free weekly series at Poets House introduces the smallest visitors to verse — favorite authors include Eric Carle, Shel Silverstein and Dr. Seuss — through readings and singalongs. They can then move on to creative stations to explore tools like typewriters, rubber stamps and word magnets. At 10 a.m., 10 River Terrace, at Murray Street, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, 212-431-7920, poetshouse.org.

Tribeca Film Festival Street Fair and Tribeca/ESPN Sports Day (Saturday) The screenings may be indoors, but the Tribeca Film Festival offers outdoor pleasures, too. Its free annual fair, on Greenwich Street between Chambers and Hubert Streets, offers crafts, entertainment and the Tribeca Studios Backlot, an opportunity to learn what it’s like to make a movie. Children can visit a hair and makeup trailer and a camera car, operate film equipment, work on stop-motion animation and create a movie poster. At the Games for Change Public Arcade, on Jay Street between Greenwich and Hudson Streets, they can play both video and outdoor games that have a positive educational or social impact. A separate event, the Tribeca/ESPN Sports Day, at Greenwich Street and North Moore Street, also free, promises sports clinics, games, demonstrations and athlete appearances. From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Information: tribecafilm.com/family; tribecafilm.com/ESPN.

‘Twinkle Tames a Dragon: The Musical’ (Saturday and Sunday) If you think a puppy can be obstreperous, imagine what a mischievous little dragon can do. That’s the pet that Twinkle, a fairy, unexpectedly receives from her godmother in this musical from Vital Theater Company, adapted from the book of the same title by Katharine Holabird, author of the Angelina Ballerina series. There may not be an obedience school for dragons, but Twinkle has a few magical advantages to draw on in this show for ages 2 through 7. (Through May 22.) At 1 p.m., Theater at Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

UniverSoul Circus (through Sunday) Don’t expect hurdy-gurdy tunes at this big-top event. Emphasizing African-American contributions to circus arts, UniverSoul performs its acts to hip-hop, R&B, soul and gospel. This year’s show also presents performances from around the world, including Chile, Ethiopia, Colombia and China. Among the acts are aerial duets, Caribbean dance and discoing elephants. (The circus begins an engagement in Queens on Wednesday.) Friday at 10:30 a.m. and 7 p.m.; Saturday at noon, 4 and 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 12:30, 3:30 and 6:30 p.m.; Aviator Sports and Events Center, Floyd Bennett Field, 3159 Flatbush Avenue, near the Belt Parkway, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com, universoulcircus.com.

‘Up to You’ (Saturday and Sunday) Tada! Youth Theater is reviving this excellent musical, which is set in 1977 but successfully explores topics very much in the news today: bullying, gay rights and the political process. Inspired by some of the experiences of Eric Rockwell, who wrote the book and music (the lyrics are by Joanne Bogart), the show takes place against the backdrop of student council elections at Hamilton High School, where the narrator, Eric, faces gossip about his sexuality and teasing because of his nonconformity. (Through May 21.) At 2 and 4 p.m., 15 West 28th Street, second floor, Manhattan, 212-252-1619, Ext. 5, tadatheater.com.

‘A Voyage Through Jewish History’ (continuing) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children’s Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah’s tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca’s camels, playing the strings on David’s harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. This Monday through Thursday, the museum also offers “The Ultimate Science Show,” an interactive performance. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum.

‘The Wind in the Willows’ (Friday through Sunday) This theatrical production features the work of two celebrated children’s authors: Kenneth Grahame, who wrote the book “The Wind in the Willows,” about the adventures of woodland animals, and A.A. Milne, creator of Winnie-the-Pooh, who wrote the script for this musical adaptation of Grahame’s work. Performed by the Gingerbread Players, the show presents the stories of Rat, Mole, Badger and Mr. Toad, set to a score by H. Fraser-Simson, with additional songs by William Ryden. Friday at 7:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 p.m.; St. Luke’s Church, 85 Greenway South, between Ascan Avenue and Harrow Street, Forest Hills, Queens, 718-268-7772, gingerbreadplayers.org.

‘A Year With Children 2016’ (Friday through June 12) Most of the artists whose work is displayed at the Guggenheim Museum are well known. But now the museum is showing pieces by young — very young — aspiring artists. These are the projects created by students in grades 2 through 6 who have taken part in the museum’s Learning Through Art program, which sends artists into public schools to teach skills and techniques. More than 100 works from 12 schools are in the show, including drawings, paintings, collages, sculptures and installations. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, 212-423-3500, guggenheim.org/ywc2016.

‘The Amazing Max’ (Saturday and Sunday) Max Darwin, a.k.a. the Amazing Max, may come across like the M.C. at a raucous bar mitzvah party, but he does know his craft, and now he’s bringing it back to New York City for another round of shows. In this hourlong magic performance, he performs feats like mind reading, making objects disappear and then reappear, and sending coins raining from various parts of the body. The show includes lots of audience participation. (Through May 1.) At 3:30 p.m., Theater at Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan, 866-811-4111, theamazingmax.com.

‘America to Zanzibar: Muslim Cultures Near and Far’ (continuing) You have to look hard for positive representations of the Muslim world in popular culture, and even harder for a way to make it accessible to the youngest Americans. This exhibition, at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan, aims to teach visitors 10 and under about a variety of Muslim communities. Divided into five sections, the show includes a global marketplace, an exploration of trade routes, a courtyard area and an investigation of architecture through different mosque styles. The final section is devoted to an American home, represented by a living room filled with objects donated by Muslims in the United States. The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

‘Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces’ (continuing) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing Middle Eastern artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (around 1900) where young archaeologists can dress in costume and portray early-20th-century immigrants to Palestine. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

‘The Art and Whimsy of Mo Willems’ (through Sept. 25) Mr. Willems is author of the much-loved picture book “Don’t Let the Pigeon Drive the Bus!,” along with many other works. There’s no reason not to let the pigeon drive this new exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, though, and so it does, along with Mr. Willems’s other creatures, like Elephant and Piggie, Cat the Cat and Knuffle Bunny. The show explores his creative process — it includes animation cels, sketches, wire sculptures and a video — and how New York often became his muse. Family programs are scheduled throughout the run, including readings of Mr. Willems’s books every weekday (except Mondays) at 2 p.m. and every Sunday at 11:30 a.m. Some weekends (including this Sunday) also offer “Don’t Let the Pigeon Draw in the Galleries!,” a 2 p.m. sketching tour. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org.

‘Beauty and the Beast’ (Saturday and Sunday) Yes, it’s that tale as old as time, but Literally Alive Children’s Theater has put a different spin on it in this revival of the musical adaptation by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell. This version draws heavily on the original story, with dream sequences in which Beauty, while in the Beast’s castle, encounters his human self in her dreams. Tickets include a preshow workshop in which children meet cast members and make Beauty or Beast masks to take home. (Through April 26.) Saturday at 3 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m.; the workshop starts one hour before each performance; Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, at Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, 866-811-4111, literallyalive.com.

‘Bello Mania’ (Friday through Sunday) Bello is Bello Nock, the clown with the towering brush cut who first attained fame at the Big Apple Circus, then at Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey. Now he’s returned to the New Victory Theater with his own show, newly revamped. It includes not just comedy but also his gasp-inducing aerial acts, like swaying on a 44-foot-high pole over the audience members’ heads. His family works on the production and one member — his daughter, Annaliese — also performs. (Through May 1.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 4 p.m.; 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org.

‘Brooklyn Sewers: What’s Up Down There?’ (Through May 29) When it comes to subterranean infrastructure projects, New York City’s subway system seems to get all the attention. But a group of teenage curators at the Brooklyn Historical Society would like to introduce you to another underground marvel: Brooklyn’s sewer system, one of the city’s oldest and most extensive infrastructure projects. This exhibition explores engineering conundrums and courtroom battles and tells the story of the sewer system through photographs, drawings and maps. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org.

‘Clifford the Big Red Dog Live!’ (Sunday) A lot of dogs are big, but none are as huge as the one that came bounding from the imagination of the author and illustrator Norman Bridwell: Clifford, who towers over not only his owner, Emily Elizabeth, but also houses and trees. His friendly presence will fill the stage at Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, where this musical adaptation will focus on Clifford’s Big Ideas: precepts like be truthful, be kind and help others. At 2 p.m., Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Brooklyn College, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush, Brooklyn, 718-951-4500, brooklyncenter.org.

‘Connected Worlds’ (continuing) Human choices and actions have an impact on the world’s ecosystems, but people usually can’t see the effects as they happen. That isn’t true in this permanent exhibition in the renovated Great Hall of the New York Hall of Science. Consisting of huge screens (one is 38 feet tall), the show depicts six interconnected environments with a shared water supply. With the help of technology that responds to gestures, “Connected Worlds” allows children to use simple motions to plant, harvest, cut trees, create clouds and make other changes in the projected landscapes — and see how the native flora and fauna fare. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org.

‘The Discovery of King Tut’ (Through May 15) The Egyptian pharaoh Tutankhamen died when he was only a teenager, but the magnificent riches of his tomb have made him immortal in the public imagination. This touring show at Premier Exhibitions 5th Avenue recreates Tut’s tomb as it was when the British archaeologist Howard Carter discovered it in 1922. The display includes reconstructions of the tomb’s three chambers and reproductions of more than 1,000 treasures and ritual objects, accompanied by video documentaries and texts. 417 Fifth Avenue, at 38th Street, tutnyc.com.

Family Sundays at Onassis (Sunday) The gods of Greek mythology were known to live on Mount Olympus, but lately they’ve been hanging out in Midtown Manhattan, too. Their influence is on view there at the Onassis Cultural Center NY in the free exhibition “Gods and Mortals at Olympus: Ancient Dion, City of Zeus,” which compares the fanciful abode of the gods with the realities of life in Dion, an ancient city built on Olympus’s slopes. The center is holding a free monthly Family Sunday at the show, when storytellers and educators will explore the art and artifacts, and children can make masks from recycled materials. They can also play Secrets of the Past — Excavating the City of Zeus, a video game in which they take on the role of director of excavations at Dion. At 11 a.m. and 12:30 and 2 p.m., Olympic Tower, 645 Fifth Avenue, at 51st Street. Reservations: onassisusa.org/dion.

Freedom Art Jam (Sunday) What better way to celebrate liberty than to draw and dance? Freedom is the theme of this Passover celebration at the Jewish Museum, whose boogie aspects will include concerts by the Macaroons (12:30 and 2:30 p.m.), with songs about Moses and matzo. Art activities will include painting fabric pieces with Passover motifs, collaborating on a giant matzo-themed collage and sculpting holiday vessels. There will also be holiday-themed gallery tours, with sketching. Noon to 4 p.m., 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

‘The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation’ (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Thursday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

Kids ‘N Comedy: ‘Embarrassing Moments’ (Sunday) The class clown gets applause, not detention, at this monthly series, in which tween and teenage comics perform stand-up. Here they offer a show focusing on life’s more humiliating episodes, and heaven knows, adolescence is full of them. The material is recommended for children 9 and older, but there’s no need to worry about appropriateness (profanity is banned) or knock-knock jokes (this crew is sophisticated). Reservations required. At 1 p.m., Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, 212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com.

‘The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe’ (Saturday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn’t two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That’s what Chris Boerner and Erin Layton do in the Off Broadway Family Theater’s first production, le Clanché du Rand’s adaptation of C. S. Lewis’s classic novel. (The run is open-ended.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

‘Little Red’s Hood’ (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This isn’t your grandma’s “Little Red Riding Hood.” A new production from the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater, written and directed by Liam Hurley, this show gives the old-fashioned fairy tale a hip urban sensibility. Here, Little Red is a smartphone-obsessed city kid, and the wolf, Wulfric, is a misunderstood dude with a weakness for sugar who tries to intercept her when she heads to the country to take cupcakes to Grandma. (Through June 26.) This week: Friday, and Tuesday through Thursday, at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an additional Wednesday performance at 2:30 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m.; 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts.

MoMA Art Lab: Process (continuing) The Museum of Modern Art is offering children a new way to play: Instead of pretending to be, say, Batman or Katniss Everdeen, how about imagining yourself as Ellsworth Kelly or Louise Nevelson? The place to try on these identities is the latest MoMA Art Lab, intended not only to acquaint young visitors with the works in the museum’s collection but also to help them relate to the methods and meanings behind them. The space explores the artistic process through stations where children can, for example, imitate Kelly’s gridlike designs or recreate and reinterpret a Nevelson sculpture. There are also opportunities to sketch a still life, design a chair, work with unusual materials and listen to tapes of artists discussing their work. (Through Aug. 31.) The Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan, 212-708-9805, moma.org/artlab.

Music in Motion (Saturday) That motion is the gentle rocking of a boat for this series of family neighborhood concerts presented by Bargemusic, the floating barge at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. As always, the material — announced just before the performance — is chamber music, but these programs differ in important ways from the regular Bargemusic fare: With unreserved seating, they last only an hour, include a post-show question-and-answer session with the musicians and are free. (Through May 28.) At 4 p.m. (doors open at 3:45), Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006, bargemusic.org.

‘My Superhero, Roberto Clemente’ (Saturday) Roberto Clemente (1934-72) may not have had superpowers, but he was certainly a hero, both on and off the baseball field. Battling discrimination throughout his sports career, he became the first Latino athlete inducted into the Baseball Hall of Fame, and was killed in the crash of a plane he had chartered to deliver aid to earthquake victims in Nicaragua. This bilingual children’s musical from Teatro SEA, written by Manuel Antonio Morán and Alejandro Zuleta, focuses on a boy named Bobby, who, with his friends, discovers Clemente’s legacy. (Through April 23.) At 3 p.m., Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children’s Theater, Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, 212-529-1545, teatrosea.org.

‘Our City’ (through Sept. 4) New York is a huge metropolis, but it can feel surprisingly intimate in its neighborhoods. This new exhibition at the Brooklyn Children’s Museum explores the concept of those communities, encouraging young visitors to think about what makes their streets distinctive. The show incorporates the work of contemporary artists in exhibits like Elizabeth Hamby’s “Alphabet City,” which investigates the architecture of housing developments; Priscilla Stadler’s “Fragile City,” which looks at the replacement of old institutions by new construction; and Rusty Zimmerman’s “Free Portrait Project,” which represents the faces of Crown Heights residents. 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, 718-735-4400, brooklynkids.org.

‘The Pirate La Dee Da’: A New Musical (Saturday and Sunday) Avast, all ye sexists! Piracy has never been an exclusively male pursuit. This production from Atlantic for Kids, the children’s division of the Atlantic Theater Company, delivers this message gleefully as it charts the transformation of the title character from royal bride-to-be to swashbuckling buccaneer. The show, which has a book by Gabrielle Allan and Jennifer Crittenden, and music and lyrics by Nate Weida, abounds in surprises, the biggest being the seriousness that underlies all the fun. Closing this weekend, this may be comedy for 5- to 10-year-olds, but it’s comedy with a social conscience. At 10:30 a.m., Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org.

The Pop Ups (Sunday) The rock duo consisting of Jacob Stein and Jason Rabinowitz, otherwise known as the Pop Ups, is popping up again for a concert at City Winery. This interactive show will feature puppets, colorful props — and the performers’ inimitable and well-known antics — as well as catchy pop tunes. The event heralds the release of their latest album, “Great Pretenders Club,” a celebration of imaginative play. (Also on May 22.) At 11 a.m., 155 Varick Street, at Vandam Street, South Village, 212-608-0555, citywinery.com.

Preservation Detectives: ‘Matzo Madness!’ (Sunday) The plagues that the Bible says were visited upon the Egyptians when the pharaoh refused to grant the Jewish people freedom were bitter indeed, but this Passover program at the Museum at Eldridge Street will turn them into something sweet. “Matzo Madness!,” part of the museum’s series of Preservation Detectives family tours, in which children 4 to 11 can view artifacts and sleuth their way into the past, will feature making marshmallow versions of these scourges. Activities will also include a Passover-theme scavenger hunt, a holiday art project, a Passover singalong and a reading and book signing with the children’s author Yona Zeldis McDonough. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets, Lower East Side, 212-219-0302, eldridgestreet.org/visit/family. Reservations are required.

‘Rebel, Jedi, Princess, Queen: Star Wars and the Power of Costume: The Exhibition’ (through Sept. 5) Sure, the Millennium Falcon and all those weird planets were cool, but what about the robes, helmets and uniforms? Darth Vader wouldn’t have been the same without his heavy-breathing headgear, or Chewbacca without his yak hair and mohair exterior. This exhibition at Discovery Times Square features more than 70 costumes and artifacts from the “Star Wars” franchise, including the latest movie, “Star Wars: The Force Awakens.” The show also offers filmed interviews with designers and actors; sketches, photographs and notes; and a special-effects interactive in which visitors can see an image of themselves as a “Star Wars” character. 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com.

The Rock and Roll Playhouse at Brooklyn Bowl (Sunday) Small children aren’t shy about rocking out — especially if you provide the right tunes. In this series from the Rock and Roll Playhouse, geared to music fans 7 and under, young participants will move, play and sing while listening to works from the classic-rock canon. This Sunday offers a disco dance party. (Through May 15.) At noon, 61 Wythe Avenue, between 11th and 12th Streets, Williamsburg, 718-963-3369, therockandrollplayhouse.com/brooklynbowl.

Scholastic Art & Writing Awards: New York City Regional Exhibition (through May 30) Andy Warhol won one. So did Stephen King and Sylvia Plath. And Lena Dunham. They’re the Scholastic Art and Writing Awards, given annually to a select group of students in grades seven through 12. This free show — which brings the work of these young people to the Metropolitan Museum of Art — features more than 600 entries that received the Gold Key Award, the highest regional recognition. Hosted by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, it includes fashion design and mixed-media pieces, as well as painting, sculpture, poetry, essays and fiction. Ruth and Harold D. Uris Center for Education, 212-535-7710, artandwriting.org.

‘Sew What?’ (through May 22) Threads cover, but they can also reveal: traditions, images, ideas, memories. This exhibition at the Children’s Museum of the Arts showcases the creations of a variety of artists using textile and fiber, including Louise Bourgeois, Eliza Kentridge, Nathan Vincent and Adrian Esparza. The show is accompanied by an interactive site-specific installation by Jeila Gueramian that combines textiles and lights, and “The Marvelous Mini-Clothesline,” a project that children can add to by making tiny models of their own clothes. 103 Charlton Street, between Hudson and Greenwich Streets, South Village, 212-274-0986, cmany.org.

‘Sunshine’ (Sunday) How do you get rid of unwelcome Sunshine? Not surprisingly, the answer is old-fashioned rain. A downpour becomes a blessing when dealing with this Sunshine, a grumpy landlord who is the title character in a story by Ludwig Bemelmans. In 2005 Jennifer Draganski, Sean Hartley and John O’Neill adapted the tale, about saving a music school from eviction, into a show, which is now being revived by the Poppy Seed Players and the students of the Kaufman Center’s two music schools. At 11 a.m., Merkin Concert Hall, 129 West 67th Street, Manhattan, 212-501-3330, kaufmanmusiccenter.org/mch.

‘A Taste of Magic’ (Friday) Would you like a side of sleight of hand with that burger? This show, developed by Magnets, a collective of local magicians, brings wizardry to the dinner table. Taking place at various restaurants, the presentation includes acts like mind reading and card tricks, which professionals perform close-up for guests; there’s also a cabaret-style show. And the admission price includes a full meal. (Through May 28 at various locations.) At 8 p.m., Docks Oyster Bar & Seafood Grill, 633 Third Avenue, at 40th Street, Manhattan, atasteofmagicnyc.com.

‘That Physics Show’ (Friday through Sunday and Tuesday) Dave Maiullo doesn’t use cards, sleight of hand or magic wands to achieve startling effects onstage; he just relies on Newton’s laws. Mr. Mailluo, for years a physics support specialist at Rutgers University, is the wizard behind this 90-minute Off Broadway show, which includes segments on motion, momentum, vacuum, friction, density and sound. Expect lots of liquid nitrogen — and lots of surprises. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Tuesday at 11:30 a.m.; Elektra Theater, 300 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 866-811-4111, thatphysicsshow.com.

‘Twinkle Tames a Dragon: The Musical’ (Saturday and Sunday) If you think a puppy can be obstreperous, imagine what a mischievous little dragon can do. That’s the pet that Twinkle, a fairy, unexpectedly receives from her godmother in this musical from Vital Theater Company, adapted from the book of the same title by Katharine Holabird, author of the Angelina Ballerina series. There may not be an obedience school for dragons, but Twinkle has a few magical advantages to draw on in this show for ages 2 through 7, which has been extended. (Through May 22.) At 1 p.m., Theater at Blessed Sacrament, 152 West 71st Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

UniverSoul Circus (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Don’t expect hurdy-gurdy tunes at this big-top event. Emphasizing African-American contributions to circus arts, UniverSoul performs its acts to hip-hop, R&B, soul and gospel. This year’s show also presents performances from around the world, including Chile, Ethiopia, Colombia and China. Among the acts are aerial duets, Caribbean dance and discoing elephants. (Through April 24.) Friday, Wednesday and Thursday at 10:30 a.m. and 7 p.m.; Saturday at noon, 4 and 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 12:30, 3:30 and 6:30 p.m.; Tuesday at 7 p.m.; Aviator Sports and Events Center, Floyd Bennett Field, 3159 Flatbush Avenue, near the Belt Parkway, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com, universoulcircus.com.

‘Up to You’ (Saturday and Sunday) Tada! Youth Theater is reviving this excellent musical, which is set in 1977 but successfully explores topics very much in the news today: bullying, gay rights and the political process. Inspired by some of the experiences of Eric Rockwell, who wrote the book and music (the lyrics are by Joanne Bogart), the show takes place against the backdrop of student council elections at Hamilton High School, where the narrator, Eric, faces gossip about his sexuality and teasing because of his nonconformity. (Through May 21.) Saturday at 7 p.m.; Sunday at 2 and 4 p.m.; 15 West 28th Street, second floor, Manhattan, 212-252-1619, Ext. 5, tadatheater.com.

‘The Very Hungry Caterpillar Show’ (Friday through Sunday) This puppet production doesn’t star only that voracious caterpillar, well known to generations of little fans of the author and illustrator Eric Carle; it also features creatures from three other vibrant picture books he created: “The Artist Who Painted a Blue Horse,” “Mister Seahorse” and “The Very Lonely Firefly.” Brought to life by the Puppet Kitchen, these fanciful characters take the stage in a dazzling hourlong adaptation, conceived by Jonathan Rockefeller and closing this weekend. All shows are currently sold out, but there is an online waiting list; 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, hungrycaterpillarshow.com.

‘A Voyage Through Jewish History’ (continuing) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children’s Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah’s tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca’s camels, playing the strings on David’s harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. This Sunday also offers the museum’s Matzo Factory, at 1, 1:45 and 2:30 p.m., in which children can thresh and grind wheat and bake their own matzos to take home for Passover. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum.

‘The Wind in the Willows’ (Saturday and Sunday) This theatrical production features the work of two celebrated children’s authors: Kenneth Grahame, who wrote the book “The Wind in the Willows,” about the adventures of woodland animals, and A.A. Milne, creator of Winnie the Pooh, who wrote the script for this musical adaptation of Grahame’s work. Performed by the Gingerbread Players, the show presents the stories of Rat, Mole, Badger and Mr. Toad, set to a score by H. Fraser-Simson, with additional songs by William Ryden. (Through April 24.) Saturday at 2:30 and 7:30 p.m.; Sunday at 2:30 p.m.; St. Luke’s Church, 85 Greenway South, between Ascan Avenue and Harrow Street, Forest Hills, Queens, 718-268-7772, gingerbreadplayers.org.

‘Wringer’ (Friday through Sunday) This musical adaptation of Jerry Spinelli’s award-winning novel, presented by New York City Children’s Theater, is lots of fun — too much fun for anyone who admires the book’s poignant, sometimes disturbing exploration of preadolescent peer pressure. The show, by Rebekah Greer Melocik and Jacob Yandura, finds as much comedy as possible in the struggles of the novel’s young hero, Palmer, who opposes his town’s annual pigeon shoot, and it replaces Mr. Spinelli’s bittersweet ending with a rollicking, upbeat conclusion. Closing this weekend, the production will include talkbacks with the cast after the Friday and Saturday evening performances. Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 3 and 6 p.m.; City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, 212-581-1212, nycchildrenstheater.org.