SAN DIEGO —  What would Jesus do at Comic-Con?

Perhaps work the miracle of getting some attention from the comics crowd.

Faith-based entertainment, though it is increasingly a staple of mainstream movie and television studios, had only a small visible presence among the zombies, “Star Wars” Stormtroopers and, of course, superheroes whose annual Comic-Con International fan convention at the San Diego Convention Center ended on Sunday.

Religion was certainly not taboo at the convention. Thursday morning, the writer Mark Russell and the cartoonist Shannon Wheeler had great fun with a slide show that ran through the history of the Bible in 10 minutes or so.

The Old Testament, Mr. Russell explained, was God’s exercise in anger management. He described the near eradication of mankind by flood with a slide titled “Sorry for the genocide.”

Mr. Russell and Mr. Wheeler have used irreverence to win an audience for what is actually a slyly empathetic retelling of Bible stories in their graphic novel, “God Is Disappointed in You.” It is soon to be followed by a sequel, called “Apocrypha Now.”

About 200 convention-goers cheerfully watched the slides, and listened as Mr. Russell and Mr. Wheeler insisted that their intention was not to lampoon the Bible but to make it accessible. “It’s basically the Bible written for people in a bar,” Mr. Russell said.

But there was almost no obvious contemporary, faith-based cultural presence on a convention exhibit floor that was crammed with gods, spirits and cultic outcroppings of almost every stripe.

The Christian Comic Arts Society was supposed to have a spot in the small press pavilion, but was not to be found in its assigned spot on Thursday and Friday. If the group indeed showed up, it was lost somewhere in the crowd of 130,000 attendees. The closest approach to Christian imagery was a large drawing that portrayed a dragon-conquering woman beneath a halo.

A couple of “angels” were strolling about, but they were ominously covered, head to toe, in dark makeup.

An afternoon panel called “Sunday Morning Funny: The Lighter Side of Faith-Based Comics,” turned out to be a podcast focused mostly on the claimed failings of inspirational comics from the 91-year-old comic book artist Jack Chick. “The quality is not on par” with contemporary graphic novels, complained one of the speakers.

Last month, a gathering of mainstream Hollywood executives and faith-oriented marketers in Los Angeles noted a new hunger for films and television programs that connect with religious themes.

Paramount Pictures waded into the faith market last year with an action-oriented film, “Noah,” but took some lumps for including Transformer-like rock monsters that seemed Comic-Con friendly. The studio will try again next year with its new version of “Ben-Hur.” Timur Bekmambetov (“Abraham Lincoln: Vampire Hunter”) is directing, and Jack Huston (“The Longest Ride”) has the starring role.

“Everywhere I go, people are unhappy with the path we are on,” said Nolan Lebovitz, who attended the Los Angeles event and sees opportunity in the pop culture.

A filmmaker turned rabbi, Mr. Lebovitz once made the sort of films that populate Comic-Con — he wrote and directed “Tortured,” about an F.B.I. agent’s foray into torture, for instance. But he is now touring the country with his new documentary, “Roadmap Genesis,” in which he, like Mr. Russell and Mr. Wheeler, seeks to make the Bible accessible.

By and large, the denizens of Comic-Con have been comfortable with some grand films in which Christian themes were a subliminal presence. At last month’s Los Angeles conference, Peter Jackson’s Middle-earth movies were offered as a prime example by a speaker, Mark Ordesky, who had a producing credit on the “Lord of the Rings” trilogy.

But Comic-Con attendees have largely looked away from overtly faith-based fare. And they openly disdain what many call the “yellow sign people” — those who annually picket the convention center with signs that promise a bad end to those who consume too much comic fare. (On Thursday, A&E tried to pick up publicity by dispatching counterdemonstrators, who promoted the network’s new series “Damien” with signs warning: “The Beast Rises.”)

This year, one picketer hoisted a sign that said “God hates Marvel.” He was dressed as a DC Comics character, The Joker, so it was hard to judge his motivation.

Others, perhaps more serious, distributed “Get Out of Hell Free” cards.

“I thought they were marketing for ‘Lucifer,’ ” said the comic book historian Jessica Tseang, who spoke on the “Sunday Morning Funny” panel.

Ms. Tseang referred to a coming Fox series about the devil’s decision to become a Los Angeles crime fighter — a popular fixture on thousands of swag bags here.

STOCKHOLM —  The saga of Lisbeth Salander continues, and David Lagercrantz, who has written the sequel to Stieg Larsson’s wildly popular “Millennium” trilogy, is both proud and deeply anxious over how millions of readers will receive it.

“At night my head burns,” he said, explaining that he had tried to get Mr. Larsson’s characters “into my blood system” when writing. Asked about the biggest liberty he took, he laughed a little and said, “Doing it.”

A tall, handsome, slightly twitchy man in a T-shirt and plaid trousers, he acknowledged that “I’m scared to death that I won’t live up to Stieg.” But “I couldn’t resist,” he said. “I would have regretted it my whole life.”

Mr. Larsson’s legacy is certainly formidable, even intimidating. After he died in 2004 of a sudden heart attack at 50, his three books, beginning with “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo,” went on to sell some 80 million copies in more than 50 languages.

In 2013, Mr. Larsson’s father and brother hired Mr. Lagercrantz, a Swedish author of literary fiction and biography, to write a sequel to the trilogy. The result, “The Girl in the Spider’s Web,” was published in 25 countries on Thursday (the American edition is due out on Tuesday), and its many publishers, including Knopf in the United States, have reason to be bullish.

Already 2.7 million copies have been printed globally, and marketing is in full swing; one German bookshop is offering to give away a Fiat 500 in the “Millennium” design — the Fiat with the Dragon Tattoo — to a lucky customer. Discussions about another film have already begun, and Mr. Lagercrantz is preparing for a grueling five-week author’s tour in Europe and the United States.

But not everyone has welcomed the book, which throws its characters into complicated new conspiracies involving cybercrime and the National Security Agency. Its publication has been particularly traumatic for Mr. Larsson’s longtime partner, Eva Gabrielsson, who sees it as a crass manipulation of his legacy for profit. She draws a parallel between “Spider’s Web” and the controversial publication of Harper Lee’s first draft of “To Kill a Mockingbird.”

“I’m quite angry about it,” she said. “I don’t think it’s the right thing to do to a dead author. Sequels never turn out very well, because authors are so constrained; they’re not free to move around in the material.”

Ms. Gabrielsson, now 61, lived with Mr. Larsson for more than 30 years, but because they never married, she had no inheritance rights under Swedish law. She has refused to release the 200 pages or so of an unfinished fourth book that Mr. Larsson had on his computer when he died because she did not want another author to complete it.

The trilogy should stand on its own, she said. “I think about the readers. They got to know a fantastic writer who becomes like an old friend. And now they say, ‘Your old friend is gone but we’ll give you a blind date, and be happy.’ ”

Ms. Gabrielsson wrote a book about the struggle over Mr. Larsson’s legacy several years ago, and the Larsson heirs have responded with offers of work and money that she has rejected.

At 52, Mr. Lagercrantz is two years older than Mr. Larsson was when he died. He said he embraced the challenge of creating the sequel when it was proposed by his agent, who once worked at Norstedts, the Swedish publisher of the trilogy. “I’m a strange kind of author — I like assignments,” Mr. Lagercrantz said. “I wasn’t clever enough to invent an iconic figure like Salander, but she’s my kind of girl.”

Mr. Larsson described the inspiration for Lisbeth Salander, the tough, tattooed computer genius who became his most memorable character, as “Pippi Longstocking” grown up, a woman who lives by her own rules. But Mr. Lagercrantz discovered that Stieg and his younger brother, Joakim, now 57, were great readers of comics as children, including “Modesty Blaise,” a British strip featuring a femme fatale supervillain turned superheroine.

“First we seek our heroes in old myths, and now we seek them in popular culture,” Mr. Lagercrantz said. “They told me you have to be at home in Stieg Larsson’s world, but it has to be your book. And after a while, I couldn’t have Stieg Larsson’s ghost hanging over me.”

So he delved more deeply into Lisbeth’s childhood and enhanced the character of Lisbeth’s twin, Camilla, who is mentioned only a few times in the previous three books.

One of the first things he did was Google “Wasp,” Lisbeth’s code name, and he discovered the Marvel Comics superheroine of the same name, a founding member of the Avengers who develops superpowers as a child and grows up to avenge her father. Thinking of Wasp as part of Lisbeth’s self-image, he tied it into a deeper exploration of Lisbeth’s childhood with a brutal father and estranged twin sister. In the newest novel, Camilla takes over her father’s criminal empire and modernizes it, becoming Lisbeth’s “evil twin” foe.

Mikael Blomkvist, the journalist in Mr. Larsson’s trilogy, remains decent and plodding, looking for the next big scoop to save the perennially challenged Millennium magazine. Ms. Gabrielsson said that initially Mr. Larsson had focused his novel on the journalists there and that Salander was not even a character. “This became so boring, and something interesting was needed, so Lisbeth arose from need,” she said. “That’s the sign of an author’s imagination.”

Erland and Joakim Larsson, Stieg Larsson’s father and brother, his legal heirs by default, said in an interview that they had never considered having anyone but Mr. Lagercrantz write the book, which has received some early positive reviews. Erland, 79, however, did notice it didn’t have much sex, an element that he felt Stieg had overdone. (He said that Stieg’s response to him was simple: “Sex sells.”) They say they intend to give their share of the royalties to Expo, an investigative magazine co-founded by Mr. Larsson in 1995 that was his model for Millennium magazine.

“It was always Stieg’s intention that the income from Book Four would go to Expo,” Erland said, adding that he and Joakim had given considerable sums to Expo in the past.

Mr. Lagercrantz, meanwhile, remains sensitive to charges that he is profiting from another man’s fame. The Swedish news media has pointed out, as has Ms. Gabrielsson, that he and Stieg Larsson are from different worlds — that Mr. Lagercrantz is from a noble literary family and lacks the political activism and rage that drove Mr. Larsson.

Mr. Lagercrantz points to torments of his own. “The real demon in my life is my father,” Olof Lagercrantz, a prominent Swedish literary critic and intellectual who died in 2002, he said. “We certainly weren’t discussing best sellers at home,” he said. “But after a time, I realized I could not be my father, and my life took a turn.”

He did crime reporting for a Swedish tabloid and then turned to biographies and a novel about Alan Turing, the British computer genius and World War II code-breaker who was convicted of gross indecency for homosexual acts and killed himself in 1954. His most highly praised work, “I Am Zlatan Ibrahimovic,” is a novelistic biography depicting the life and upbringing of one of Sweden’s and Europe’s most famous soccer stars, based on reportage but with invented dialogue.

“So I’m still schizophrenic,” Mr. Lagercrantz said. “Of course I want to be a best seller because I’m in the business and I want to be read, but there is no money in the world that can compensate for writing badly.” When I read him a cliché in the English translation of the new novel, about a woman “playing them like a violin,” Mr. Lagercrantz looked agonized. “I’d never write a line like that,” he said.

This book, of course, ends with the possibility of a sequel, but the publishers, the Larssons and Mr. Lagercrantz are all noncommittal, preferring to await the public’s reaction. “I know I don’t want to be Stieg Larsson my whole life,” Mr. Lagercrantz said.

Ms. Gabrielsson remains bitter. “They say they are doing this for the readers, and all kinds of nonsense,” she said. “They don’t want to say: ‘We want money. We want fame. We want to walk the red carpet again.’ ”

Joakim Larsson said that “we were all in shock when Stieg died,” and that throughout years of contention, “we’ve tried to reach out to Eva, to reach an agreement.” All have experienced grief, he said, from the early deaths of Stieg Larsson to those of his mother and of Joakim’s own wife. “We’ve all lost someone,” he said. “I think we should all try to comfort each other.”

Mainstream comic book publishers have tried for years to draw a more diverse readership by incorporating gay characters and story lines.

Lately, they have faced increased competition from smaller publishers that want to go more mainstream and already have an established roster of inclusive offerings.

As the comic book industry prepares to gather at Comic-Con International, which begins Thursday in San Diego, publishers big and small will be promoting a wider selection of gay-themed comic books. Industry insiders say the trend mirrors the country’s evolving attitudes toward gays and lesbians.

“The population of America has changed, and acceptance of gays has changed,” said Milton Griepp, chief executive of ICv2, which tracks the comic book industry.

ICv2 reported last week that total sales of comic books and graphic novels in the United States and Canada reached $935 million in 2014, an increase of 7 percent over 2013.

The Supreme Court’s landmark ruling on marriage equality in June came as a growing majority of Americans said they supported same-sex marriage, according to a recent Gallup poll. Support among those 18 to 29 is at nearly 80 percent.

Against this backdrop, DC Comics revamped its lineup in June. “Our main directive is to make these characters as modern and reflective of the real world,” said Jim Lee, a co-publisher of DC Comics.

Part of DC’s overhaul included creating a series for a gay superhero named Midnighter, a character that fans and critics have praised. His popularity stems in part from efforts to make his sexual orientation just one aspect of his character. For instance, he also likes to fight and is promiscuous.

Phil Jimenez, an artist known for his work on Wonder Woman and the Amazing Spider-Man comics, says that many readers no longer want to see the effeminate stereotype of the gay man in comics. Instead, they want gay superheroes to embody normative behavior — to live as typical males. “As long as the dude is dude enough, then he’s acceptable,” he said. Mr. Jimenez, who was recently featured on an  installment of the PBS Digital Studios series “First Person” that looked at queerness in comics, applauded efforts by mainstream publishers to reach gay and lesbian readers, saying it was a smart business move.

“Once you grab them, they are loyal customers,” he said.

That loyal fan base is seeking more visibility, which has led to the formation of advocacy groups like Geeks Out, a New York organization that celebrates gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender pop culture.

“The purpose of Geeks Out is to let the L.G.B.T.Q. community interact and let the industry know that we are here and have a voice,” said Joey Stern, the president and co-founder of the group, which last month organized Flame Con, the first L.G.B.T. comic book convention in New York.

“A big part of it was to offer an opportunity to give exposure to artists who were often in the background,” Mr. Stern said.

But Flame Con also served to cater to a growing interest among young readers for comic books that better reflected their world.

Among the vendors at Flame Con were Atari and the utility company Con Edison, as well as small publishers like Northwest Press, which attended with the motto that “comics are for everyone.”

Northwest’s publisher, Charles Christensen, who goes by Zan, said Northwest was dedicated to publishing queer-themed graphic novels and that he wanted to get them into the hands of all readers. “They are all about love and loss and adventure and danger,” he said. “It’s all universal.”

Diverse storytelling benefits all readers, gay or straight, Mr. Griepp of ICv2 said. “A good story is enjoyable to everybody,” he said, pointing to the steady sales for Alison Bechdel’s graphic memoir “Fun Home” as an example.

The book, about a lesbian cartoonist and her closeted gay father, has been a best seller since its release in 2007, he said. Adapted for the stage, “Fun Home” won five Tony Awards in June, including one for best musical.

Jon Goldwater felt the need to modernize Archie Comics when he came aboard as publisher. “It was crystal clear that Archie was not diverse,” he said, so he introduced Kevin Keller, a gay character, in 2010, eventually giving Kevin his own series.

“It was a cultural decision and business decision,” Mr. Goldwater said. “They go hand in hand.”

The trend to portray true-to-life gay characters in works intended for a wider audience extends to comic books aimed at younger readers, too. Published by an imprint of Boom! Studios, Lumberjanes is a series about the summer camp experiences of five girls, two of whom have a crush on each other.

“We wanted to have queer characters but not oversexualize them,” says Shannon Watters, an editor at Boom! Studios and a creator of Lumberjanes, adding that she wants to represent regular children at an age when they are figuring out who they are. “The normalization of queer young people was important,” she said.

Ms. Watters said she appreciated the efforts of more mainstream publications to do the same.

“It is very encouraging to see the decisions that DC and Marvel have made in giving marginalized creators more of platform to tell their stories,” she said, “but we still have a long way to go.”

9 P.M. (Starz) GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY (2014) A motley crew of baddies, led by Peter Quill (Chris Pratt), a heavily armed professional scavenger, join forces to stop a crazed warrior from taking over the universe in James Gunn’s interstellar western, based on the Marvel Comics characters. The cast includes Zoe Saldana as Gamora, a green, mean killing machine; Dave Bautista as the brute Drax; Glenn Close as a space-age Hillary Rodham Clinton; Bradley Cooper as the voice of the raccoon Rocket; and Vin Diesel as a gorgeous tree called Groot, who nibbles his own tender sprouts. Oh, yes — and a blue orb that has incited the mayhem in the first place. “That there’s a palpable directorial sensibility in ‘Guardians of the Galaxy,’ along with other signs of genuine life, helps separate this latest Marvel cash grab from a lot of off-the-rack movie cartoons,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. “Here, a pulse, wit, beauty and a real sensibility have been slipped into the fray, alongside the clockwork guffaws, kabooms and splats.” She added: “The story may be confusing and generic by turns, but if you shake off the bonds of narrative coherency it’s liberating letting the weird words — Yondu, Necrocraft, Sakkaran — just slide right past you, much like the zigzagging, exploding 3-D spaceships. What sticks are the fantastical landscapes, the beautiful creature designs and the actors delivering lively performances, even with strata of makeup and digital wizardry.”

8 A.M. (CUNY) TIMESTALKS Gilbert Cruz, the television editor for The Times, interviews Edie Falco about her seven-season, Emmy-winning role as a flawed New York City emergency room nurse in Showtime’s “Nurse Jackie.”

9 P.M. (ABC) BEYOND THE TANK Ever wonder what happens to those eager entrepreneurs after they make their deals with the “Shark Tank” tycoons? This series picks up when the negotiations have ended and the real business begins. “Shark Tank” leads in at 8.

10 P.M. (ABC) LOVE. WAR. RENEWAL. THE TAYA KYLE STORY In this “20/20” special, Robin Roberts interviews Taya Kyle, the widow of Chris Kyle, whose life inspired the Oscar-nominated film “American Sniper.” Mr. Kyle, a Navy SEAL, tallied 160 confirmed kills during four tours of duty in Iraq, only to be shot dead in Texas in 2013 by a Marine veteran he had taken to a gun range to help deal with post-traumatic stress disorder.

10 P.M. (Pivot) ANGRY PLANET The storm chaser George Kourounis examines the effects of climate change on Tuvalu in the South Pacific, which will be one of the first islands to vanish as ocean levels rise.

10 P.M. (13) EL POETA After his only son, Juan Francisco Sicilia, was killed in 2011 by a gang that claimed that he and five others had called in tips of drug activity to a hotline, the Mexican poet Javier Sicilia went to war. Calling on the government to address its drug policies, he rallied more than 100,000 protesters in Mexico City and ignited the Movement for Peace and Dignity, sending caravans around the country. Then he brought his campaign to the United States. This documentary, part of “Voces on PBS,” follows Mr. Sicilia’s journey across three years, as he and his supporters travel from crime-ravaged Mexican cities to places associated with civil rights in the American South, including Selma, Ala., and Washington.

10 P.M. (HBO) REAL TIME WITH BILL MAHER Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel-winning economist, and Garry Kasparov, the chess grandmaster and human rights activist, are the interview guests. Former Representative Jane Harman, Democrat of California; the comedian D. L. Hughley; and the foreign-policy adviser Dan Senor are seated at the round table.

10 P.M. (Discovery) UNEARTHED Black-truffle foragers near Falls City, Ore., battle dangerous terrain, unpredictable weather and predators both animal and human as they seek a fungus more valuable than gold in this new series.

1 A.M. (13) THEATER TALK The playwright David Hare and the director Stephen Daldry discuss “Skylight,” starring Carey Mulligan and Bill Nighy, now at the John Golden Theater.

What’s Streaming Now

YOUTH POWER  In this Taiwanese series, a woman (Tammy Chen) determined to pursue her passion for music despite her family’s government involvement finds herself in an election war when she meets a rising political star (Yao Yuan Hao). New episodes are available Fridays. (viki.com)

‘The Velveteen Rabbit’

When viewed with love, even the plain and ordinary can become vibrant and beautiful. That simple observation lies at the heart of “The Velveteen Rabbit,” one of the more wrenching children’s classics. Although the death and destruction that are threatened in the story do not prevail, loss does.

That sadness, though, has not diminished the work’s popularity with playwrights, and now Atlantic for Kids, part of the Atlantic Theater Company, is presenting an imaginative musical adaptation. Written by Anya Saffir and Cormac Bluestone, and directed by Ms. Saffir, “The Velveteen Rabbit” adheres closely to the 1922 book by Margery Williams (credited here as Margery Williams Bianco) in both spirit and content.

Like all Atlantic for Kids shows, this one unfolds on the set of the company’s concurrent adult production (“Cloud Nine,” by Caryl Churchill, designed by Dane Laffrey). But this marriage of convenience has become a genuine romance. Wooden bleachers, arranged in the round, and a stark performance area covered only with artificial grass intensify the intimacy. Like the toy rabbit itself, the staging has no mechanical gimmickry or flashy embellishments: just ingenious props, a couple of instruments (a cello and a guitar, with a brief banjo cameo), frequent a cappella and sometimes mere hints of costumes.

But what enchantment these elements achieve as the cast members narrate, sing and act out the story of the Velveteen Rabbit (a tenderly devoted Jessika Doyel) and the Boy (Wesley Zurick, happy and heedless, above with Ms. Doyel). The Skin Horse (Hugh C. Smith) tells the rabbit that a child’s love can make toys real, and the rabbit senses that transformation. But after the boy recovers from scarlet fever, only a fairy’s magic, which turns the rabbit into a wild hare, prevents him from being burned with other contaminated playthings.

The writers have leavened the tale with humor — a musical number in which the more elaborate nursery toys boast is particularly funny — and they’ve even given it a feminist streak, as when the Porcelain Doll (Mina Walker) displays a superheroine’s swagger. Mr. Bluestone has also injected wit into his score, which ranges in tone from barbershop quartet to doo-wop to English-style folk music.

Yet not even a rousing bunny dance (Alison Beatty is the show’s choreographer) undercuts the poignancy. As the Skin Horse admits, and the rabbit learns, love sometimes hurts. But to deny love is to be less than fully alive.

(Saturdays and Sundays at 10:30 a.m., through Nov. 1, at the Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Manhattan; 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org.)

For Children

‘Alice in Wonderland’(Saturday and Sunday) Literally Alive Theater, which adapts books into children’s productions, has followed the White Rabbit to Greenwich Village, where it has revived this musical — using video projections and over 30 instruments — based on Alice’s adventures. Written by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell, the show is preceded by a workshop in which young theatergoers learn about Lewis Carroll’s work and make a story-related craft to take home. (Through Nov. 8.) Saturday at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m.; workshop one hour before the performance. Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, at Minetta Lane, 212-352-3101, literallyalive.com.

‘Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces’(Continuing) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing Middle Eastern artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (around 1900) where young archaeologists can dress in costume and portray early-20th-century immigrants to Palestine. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

Baby Loves Disco: Halloween Hop(Sunday) Mommy and Daddy often love disco, too, and they can enjoy these afternoon dance parties — with bona fide D.J.s and nostalgic hits — along with their offspring. (The target age range is 6 months to 7 years.) Unlike clubs, these disco gatherings often feature diaper-changing stations, and unlike playgrounds, they usually have snacks and bars open for adults. This event, at University Settlement, has a Halloween theme, with a family dance costume contest. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., Speyer Hall, 184 Eldridge Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, babylovesdisco.com/events.

Boo at the Zoos(Saturday and Sunday) This weekend the Prospect Park Zoo joins the Bronx Zoo in helping visitors celebrate the wilder side of Halloween. From 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., the zoo in Brooklyn will offer games and crafts; treat-filled Halloween pumpkins for dingoes and baboons; the Spooky Barn, a haunted habitat; Wildlife Witch shows featuring animal guests; and a costume parade and dance party, among other attractions. In the Bronx, where the theme is “Mystery and Mischief,” the schedule, from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., includes animal-theme magic shows; a hay maze; creature mystery stations; an Extinct Animal Graveyard; the Jack-O’-Lantern Illumination, a walk filled with creatures carved from pumpkins; and a twice-daily costume parade. Prospect Park Zoo, 450 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, 718-399-7339, prospectparkzoo.com. Bronx Zoo, Bronx River Parkway and Fordham Road, Fordham, 718-367-1010, bronxzoo.com.

‘Brooklyn Sewers: What’s Up Down There?’(Through May 29) When it comes to subterranean infrastructure projects, New York City’s subway system seems to get all the attention. But a group of teenage curators at the Brooklyn Historical Society would like to introduce you to another underground marvel: Brooklyn’s sewer system, one of the city’s oldest and most extensive infrastructure projects. This exhibition explores engineering conundrums and courtroom battles and tells the story of the sewer system through photographs, drawings and maps. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org.

Children’s Potions and Pumpkin Tea Parties(Saturday) If children haven’t received their invitations yet to study at Hogwarts, this may be the next-best thing. Gallow Green, the rooftop restaurant at the McKittrick Hotel, has revived this series, welcoming children ages 4 through 10 to learn all about herbal potions and plantings. An English tea — with pink lemonade for young guests — will be served, and each participant may bring a favorite stuffed animal or doll. (Each adult attending must be accompanied by at least one and no more than three children; each child should bring a recyclable bottle for concoctions.) (Through Oct. 24.) At 10 a.m., 542 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 212-564-1662, events.mckittrickhotel.com/childrenspotionsandplanting. Reservations required.

CirKiz(Sunday) Electronic dance music doesn’t have many child-friendly connotations, but these raves are strictly about wholesome fun for the 6-to-12-year-old set. Established by Jenny Song and Jesse Sprague (Mr. Sprague’s 9-year-old son, DJ Alden, will again work with his father to provide entertainment), the CirKiz series of dance parties include dance lessons, D.J. lessons and crafts. This extravaganza, devoted to Halloween, will also feature costume and dance contests and performances by the 11-year-old singer-songwriter Lulu Scout, the kids’ dance company Kozmic Edge and the Dream Lab’s LED Robot. From 1 to 5 p.m., Space Ibiza New York, 637 West 50th Street, Clinton, cirkiz.com/events.

‘Connected Worlds’(continuing) Human choices and actions have an impact on the world’s ecosystems, but people usually can’t see the effects as they happen. That isn’t true in this new permanent exhibition in the renovated Great Hall of the New York Hall of Science. Consisting of huge screens (one is 38 feet tall), the show depicts six interconnected environments with a shared water supply. With the help of technology that responds to gestures, “Connected Worlds” allows children to use simple motions to plant, harvest, cut trees, create clouds and make other changes in the projected landscapes — and see how the native flora and fauna fare. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org.

‘Cooking With Frida’ (Through Nov. 1) The New York Botanical Garden is honoring the Mexican artist Frida Kahlo (1907-1954) in its exhibition “Frida Kahlo: Art, Garden, Life,” and it offers programs to introduce its youngest visitors to this famous Latina. In this one, at the Ruth Rea Howell Family Garden, children can explore the raw ingredients of Mexican cuisine and enjoy cooking demonstrations inspired by Kahlo’s entertaining. This weekend, the Howell garden will also offer “Dig! Plant! Grow!: Goodnight, Garden!,” a program from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m. that will focus on getting the place ready for winter. Children will rake leaves, bury bulbs and learn how to save seeds. It is Día de los Muertos Weekend on the grounds, too, celebrating the Mexican Day of the Dead. Highlights include a huge procession with skeletons and puppets (noon to 4 p.m.) and mask-making workshops in the Everett Children’s Adventure Garden (11 a.m. to 3 p.m.) “Cooking With Frida” workshops are on Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays at 2 and 4 p.m.; Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx, 718-817-8700, nybg.org.

Family Festival: ‘Swedish Wooden Toys’(Saturday) Sometimes the best playthings are the most basic. This free celebration at the Bard Graduate Center accompanies the exhibition “Swedish Wooden Toys,” which showcases the doll houses, pull toys, trains, planes and more that artisans created out of the simplicity of wood. Children can invent their own works at this event, collaborating with the Brooklyn organization ConstructionKids. They can also hear Phyllis Chen play music on toy pianos and enjoy marionette performances by the Swedish theater troupe Marionetteattern. From 11 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., Bard Graduate Center, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, 212-501-3011, bgc.bard.edu.

‘Fashion Academy, the Musical’(Saturday and Sunday) Vital Theater Company’s latest show for children over 7 focuses on a middle-schooler, MacKenzie Williams, known as Mickey. When her colorful and completely original style doesn’t go over well at her new school, Fashion Academy of Brooklyn, she decides to make over not only her wardrobe, but also herself. Based on the book “Fashion Academy,” by the mother-daughter team of Sheryl Berk and Carrie Berk, this adaptation, by the elder Ms. Berk and Sabrina Chap, asks whether Mickey’s new persona, Kenzie, is really worth the sacrifice. (Through Oct. 31.) Saturdays and Sundays at 3:30 p.m., Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 10 West 64th Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

Film Forum Jr.: ‘Ghostbusters’(Sunday) Who you gonna call? If you don’t know the answer to that famous line already — or even if you do — head over to Film Forum, which is showing this indelible 1984 comedy just in time for Halloween. Part of Film Forum Jr., a series introducing classic movies to children, this hilarious adventure stars Bill Murray, Dan Aykroyd and Harold Ramis as a group out to destroy any obnoxious protoplasm causing trouble in New York City. And imagine the chaos when their foes turn out to be real. At 11 a.m., 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, 212-727-8110, filmforum.org.

‘Flight School, the Musical’(Saturday and Sunday) If you want to fly, and you’re a bird, you should be all set, right? Well, not if you happen to be a penguin. That’s the challenge confronting the little hero of this new musical from Vital Theater Company, adapted from “Flight School,” a picture book by Lita Judge. With a script by Cara Lustik, lyrics by Joshua H. Cohen and a score by David Mallamud, the show, recommended for ages 2 through 7, chronicles Penguin’s determination to remove the technical obstacles between him and the sky. (Through Oct. 31.) At 1 p.m., Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 10 West 64th Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org.

‘Frolic!’ at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan(Through Dec. 31) You’re never too young to rock — and this space proves it. A new pop-up installation at the museum, “Frolic!” uses rock music and a themed décor to stimulate sensory play and learning in visitors ages 5 and under. In addition to a stage, a pretend ticket booth and ’70s-style props — including a Volkswagen mini-van to climb into — the 1,500-square-foot area has programs of workshops and live performances to help little ones get into the groove. The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

The FunkeyMonkeys(Sunday) These aren’t zoo residents but a band formed by Joshua Sitron, composer and musical director for the Nickelodeon show “Dora the Explorer.” The members make up stories and do comic bits along with their music, which is funky, of course. And their intended audience — those 2 to 6 — can sing along and dance to tasty tunes like “Cupcake” and “Baba Ganoush (Do You Want to Eat a Pita?).” At 11:30 a.m. and 2 p.m., Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3337, thejewishmuseum.org.

‘The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation’(Friday through Sunday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Fridays at 7 p.m.; Saturdays at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sundays at noon and 3 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

‘Ghouls & Gourds’(Saturday) You can find both — at least around Halloween — at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, whose annual celebration offers all manner of children’s activities. Returning attractions include a flying flea circus and Ralph Lee’s Mettawee River Theater Company, which will lead a hootenanny with fantastical woodland creatures. Special attractions include “Bug Day Afternoon,” a slate of programs including an insectorium and an investigation of worms; “Edgy Veggies,” where visitors can bowl with brussels sprouts and create potato people; and “Crazy Critters,” in which children can make their own monster repellent in the Discovery Garden. The Children’s Book Barn is back, with visiting authors and illustrators, along with a final costume parade. From noon to 5:30 p.m., rain or shine, 1000 Washington Avenue, at Eastern Parkway, Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, 718-623-7200, bbg.org/ghouls&gourds.

‘The Gruffalo’(Saturday and Sunday) What happens when the fearsome creature you’ve invented to scare away your enemies turns out to be real? That’s the situation the mouse confronts in “The Gruffalo,” Julia Donaldson’s best-selling children’s picture book. In this revival of a theatrical adaptation for ages 4 through 7 by Tall Stories, a London theater company (the sets and costumes are new), young audiences help provide sound effects for the Gruffalo, the beast the mouse thought it had only imagined. (The show closes this weekend.) At 11 a.m. and 3 p.m., with an additional performance on Saturday at 7 p.m. (The 3 p.m. show on Sunday will be sign-language interpreted and will feature drop-in arts activities an hour before the performance.) New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, 646-223-3010, newvictory.org.

Halloween in Prospect Park(Saturday and Sunday) The Halloween Haunted Walk on Lookout Hill may technically be a walk in the park, but the squeamish might not want to call it that. In this Prospect Park tradition, geared to ages 7 through 12, zombies, werewolves, witches and other haunted souls lurk along a wooded pathway, ready to provide some friendly frights. The park also offers a Halloween Fair on the Nethermead, where children can meet someone not at all scary: Snoopy from “Peanuts,” as well as the artists from Blue Sky Studios who worked on the coming film “The Peanuts Movie,” who will teach how to draw that beloved beagle. Both events are on Saturday only, from noon to 3 p.m., but other park activities go on all weekend. On Saturday and Sunday afternoons, the Prospect Park Audubon Center will offer “Creepy Crawly Halloween” (1 to 4:30 p.m.), with animal encounters (including a feeding) and owl pellet dissection, and the Lefferts Historic House will host “Scary Stories With Tammy Hall” (2 to 4 p.m.), in which Ms. Hall will entertain with tales told two centuries ago when Flatbush was a village. Directions are on the website; prospectpark.org/halloween;

‘Hansel and Gretel’s Halloween Adventure’(Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) This pair already know how to deal with a witch, and they have encounters with many more fantastical creatures in this puppet musical at the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater. Geared to ages 3 through 9 (and appropriately tame), the show is a sequel to the theater’s original “Hansel and Gretel,” introducing characters like mermaids, cute monsters, charming vampires and valiant pirates. (Through Oct. 31.) Weekdays, except Mondays, at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an extra performance on Wednesdays (and on Halloween) at 2:30 p.m.; this weekend at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. (Some shows are sold out.) At 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts. Reservations required.

‘The Hunger Games: The Exhibition’(Through Jan. 3) What enterprising 12- or 13-year-old wouldn’t like to foment a little rebellion? Such a visitor can do so vicariously at this attraction at Discovery Times Square, stepping into the role of Katniss Everdeen, the teenage heroine of “The Hunger Games” and the ultimate leader of the resistance against her nation’s totalitarian government. Based on the Lionsgate film adaptations of Suzanne Collins’s novels, the show includes costumes and artifacts from the movies, as well as re-creations of Katniss’s journey and interactive, role-playing elements like a gamesmaker’s table and a chance to learn and practice stunt choreography. 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com, thehungergamesexhibition.com.

‘If You Lived Here, You’d Be Home’(Through Jan. 17) Maps present facts, but they can also engage the imagination. This new exhibition at the Children’s Museum of the Arts explores the intersection of cartography and art, showing work that expands upon, redefines or simply refers to maps. Among the eight artists represented are Matthew Cusik, who makes collages from map fragments; Joyce Kosloff, who layers images and textured paint onto maps; Loren Munk, who adds plaques of color and information to street maps; and Nikki Rosato, who subtracts from maps, cutting away all but roads and rivers. In the museum’s Cynthia C. Wainwright Gallery, 103 Charlton Street, between Hudson and Greenwich Streets, South Village, 212-274-0986, cmany.org.

Jazz for Kids(Sunday) Every Sunday during most of the school year, Jazz Standard presents not just jazz for kids, but also jazz by kids: The featured players at its Sunday brunches are the members of the Jazz Standard Youth Orchestra, a group of talented young people ages 11 to 18. In this free series (donations are requested for the Jazz Standard Discovery Program, an initiative that brings musical performances to city schools), beginning its 14th season this weekend, the musicians play new arrangements of big-band classics while listeners enjoy barbecue offerings purchased from a menu that includes children’s fare. (Through mid-May.) Doors open at 1 p.m.; shows are from 2 to 3 p.m.; 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, 212-576-2232, discoverjazz.org/upcoming.

‘Jean-Michel Cousteau’s Secret Ocean’(Friday through Thursday) Ever encounter a goby or a blenny? How about a Christmas tree worm? These small marine species, often unnoticed and uncelebrated, are among the stars of this new Imax movie at the American Museum of Natural History. Filmed by Jean-Michel Cousteau, son of the ocean explorer Jacques Cousteau, and Holly Lohuis, a marine biologist, the film captures 30 species that are among the tiniest to inhabit the seas. (Through Jan. 10.) Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 11:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

Kids ‘N Comedy: ‘The Scary Pre-Halloween Show’(Sunday) The class clown gets applause, not detention, at this series, in which tween and teenage comics perform stand-up. At this show, the theme relates to Halloween, with the young monologuists joking about topics like the flesh-eating zombies who ride the subway. The material is recommended for children 9 and older, but there’s no need to worry about appropriateness (profanity is banned) or knock-knock jokes (these kids are sophisticated). Reservations required. At 1 p.m., Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, 212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com.

‘LARD: Life’s a Real Dream’(Saturday) This show about LARD, the concept, has nothing to do with lard, the substance. An acronym for “Life’s a Real Dream,” “LARD” is the title of a rollicking musical production starring Lard Dog, who also happens not to be a dog. The alter ego of the multimedia artist Steven Erdman, Lard is a gregarious out-of-this-world character who has flown in from the planet Belopio on a giant pretzel. He and his Band of Shy perform this hourlong entertainment, which includes cartoon graphics and a pretzel toss. (Through Jan. 2.) Saturdays at 11 a.m., 13th Street Repertory Theater, 50 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village, houseoflard.com.

‘The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe’(Saturday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn’t two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That’s what Chris Boerner and Erin Layton are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater’s first production, le Clanché du Rand’s adaptation of C. S. Lewis’s classic novel. (The run is open-ended and continues on Saturdays.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

Music in Motion(Saturday) That motion is the gentle rocking of a boat for this series of family neighborhood concerts presented by Bargemusic, the floating barge at the foot of the Brooklyn Bridge. As always, the material — announced just before the performance — is chamber music, but these programs differ in important ways from the regular Bargemusic fare: With unreserved seating, they last only an hour, include a post-show question-and-answer session with the musicians and are free. (Through Nov. 28.) At 4 p.m. (doors open at 3:45), Fulton Ferry Landing, next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, 800-838-3006, bargemusic.org.

National Dance Institute Celebration Team(Saturday) More than 100 young people, all under 15, mean a lot of happy feet. National Dance Institute, a nonprofit bringing arts programs to public schools, will present the enthusiastic performers in one of its most advanced training groups in this show at Symphony Space. The program will include an excerpt from “This Land Is Our Land: The Power of American Song,” a repertory including signature music like bluegrass, blues and spirituals. At 2 p.m., Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, 212-864-5400, symphonyspace.org.

‘NYC & Me: A Little Bite of the Big Apple’(Through Jan. 18) There’s one place where little citizens can safely run loose on the streets of New York: the Children’s Museum of Manhattan. This new interactive 3,000-square-foot gallery is a city microcosm for small visitors, allowing them to pretend to be taxi drivers, bus drivers, construction workers, street performers and, most impressively, the mayor. Activities include directing traffic, erecting a skyscraper, “ice skating” in their socks and investigating urban tales on the steps of the New York Public Library. The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org.

‘One Wild Ride’(Saturday) This would seem to be an apt title, since one of the stories in this hourlong show is about a subway car with extraordinary powers. But an even wilder ride may be provided by the young audience members themselves, who will be involved, along with the adult cast, in an adventure of their own choosing. The presenting company, BKBXKids!, a division of Broken Box Mime Theater, does this production, which closes on Saturday, with a talking M.C. After the performance, the cast will also give a workshop in mime. At 2 p.m., Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, 866-811-4111, brokenboxmime.com.

‘Rock or Treat’(Saturday) You’re heard of rocking around the clock — this Halloween show is all about rocking around the world. Developed by Funikijam, an organization devoted to early-childhood entertainment and education, “Rock or Treat” offers high-energy tunes and movement that are globally inspired for ages 3 through 10. The interactive 45-minute musical, not frightening despite its location — Times Scare — encourages children to come dressed for the holiday and participate in a costume parade. (Through Oct. 31.) Saturdays at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., Cabaret Theater, Times Scare, 669 Eighth Avenue, near 43rd Street, funikijam.com.

‘The Secret Life of C-Notes: A Workshop for Teens Who Like Money’(Saturday) Did you ever meet a teenager who didn’t like money? In this presentation, Harley J. Spiller, a.k.a. Inspector Collector, author of “Keep the Change: A Collector’s Tales of Lucky Pennies, Counterfeit C-Notes, and Other Curious Currency” (Princeton Architectural Press), will highlight the technology that makes $100 bills so hard to counterfeit. Participants can inspect bills under ultraviolet light and with magnetic detectors, discuss financial philosophies and design their own banknotes. (Prizes will be awarded.) Declan Hurley, an adolescent collector, will assist. From 11 a.m. to noon, Museum of American Finance, 48 Wall Street, at William Street, Lower Manhattan, 212-908-4110, moaf.org.

‘Skeletons … A Day of the Dead Bedtime Story’(Saturday) According to Mexican tradition, the spirits of deceased loved ones are revived on the Day of the Dead, a holiday that is joyous rather than ghoulish. In this production from Teatro SEA, the Latino children’s theater, Jimmy is in mourning for his grandfather, who actually comes back to life for one night. Written by Richard Marino, the company’s managing director, “Skeletons” portrays the comical adventures that result when Grandpa and other departed relatives try to help Jimmy get on with his life. (Through Nov. 1.) At 3 p.m., Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children’s Theater, Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, 212-529-1545, teatrosea.org.

‘Sleepy Hollow’(Friday through Sunday) Ichabod Crane and the Headless Horseman are off and riding again in this musical revival from Be Bold! Productions. Inspired by Washington Irving’s “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” and recommended for theatergoers older than 9, this show, by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell, focuses on the love triangle and the mystery inherent in Irving’s tale. It also explores a darkness beyond the story’s fearsome woods: that of the human heart. Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m. (no show on Oct. 31); Sunday at 2 p.m.; Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, at Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, 866-811-4111, hollowthemusical.com.

‘A Voyage Through Jewish History’(Continuing) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children’s Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah’s tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca’s camels, playing the strings on David’s harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum.

SAN DIEGO —  This year at Comic-Con International, the gathering of genre-geek tribes that takes over the convention center and surrounding neighborhoods here for four days every July, you could see a lot of Sadness, a few examples of Disgust, but, at least so far, no Joy.

I’m referring to the characters from the Pixar movie “Inside Out,” of course. Even when they are waiting in line, which is most of the time, Comic-Con visitors seem to be having a pretty good time. A big part of the fun is the costumes, many elaborate and handmade. (“What kind of glue are you using?” I heard someone ask a Power Ranger whose armor plating was coming undone.)

To mingle with the crowds in and around the vast exhibition hall on the center’s ground floor is to be subjected to a 3-D, real-time, live-action tutorial on the state of contemporary pop culture, a pageant of current fan obsessions. You notice the throwbacks and perennials: Spidey and Sailor Moon, Wonder Woman and Dr. Who.

You can also see how quickly certain characters connect with the imaginations of fans, perhaps because they offer something new and necessary, an image or avatar that hadn’t been there before. That seems to be the case with Sadness. On Thursday, the first full day of the event, I spotted at least a half-dozen women in blue makeup, pageboy wigs and oversize glasses with round black plastic frames.

It makes perfect sense that this character, voiced by Phyllis Smith, should be a favorite here. Strictly speaking, the protagonist of “Inside Out,” which takes place mainly in the mind of an 11-year-old girl named Riley, is Joy. She’s the one who undergoes the change and learns the lesson, and speaks in the voice of a bigger celebrity (Amy Poehler). Sadness is nonetheless the movie’s stealth heroine, and her heroism is of an especially resonant kind.

She starts out as a misfit and a scapegoat, bullied and silenced by the aggressively well-meaning Joy and kept at a distance by the other principal emotions. She mopes and mutters and gets in the way. Yet Sadness turns out to be more complicated, more essential, more powerful than she seems at first, and in the end she saves the day.

In other words, her arc is an allegory of Comic-Con itself and of what it has come to represent in its 45 years of existence. The short version is this: A bunch of oddballs — nerds and fanboys, toy collectors and cosplayers, gamers and fantasists — invaded the mainstream and planted themselves at the vital center of the entertainment industry. You can complain about that (I sometimes do), but it’s what happened.

Lately, though, something else has been happening, too — a shift in the ecosystem of fandom symbolized not only by Sadness but also by another new addition to the Comic-Con costume repertory: Imperator Furiosa, the crew-cut, one-armed avenger played by Charlize Theron in “Mad Max: Fury Road.” Furiosa’s presence amid the Disney princesses and Manga pixies is an especially potent sign of the feminism that is a big part of this event.

And perhaps a surprising one. Feminism is not necessarily what you would expect to find at a gathering of action-figure hoarders and superhero worshipers. Stereotypes die hard, and the popular image of a Comic-Con warrior is pale, doughy and male: the Comic Book Guy from “The Simpsons,” and others like him. The hordes in the exhibition hall are, however, remarkably diverse with respect to gender, age, skin color, body type and disability — much more so than any film or music festival I’m acquainted with.

Quite a few panels reflected this variety and grappled with its implications. Nobody is suggesting that a utopian age of sexual and racial equality has dawned in San Diego or anywhere else. The default Comic-Con panelist is still a white man, but it does seem that more of an effort has been made to correct this lazy lopsidedness here than in, say, the Hollywood studios a few hours up the freeway. If the entertainment business is still dominated by interlocking old-boy networks — in the movie studios, the bigger comic-book publishers, the television networks and among the writers, artists and directors those entities employ — the audience is challenging that status quo.

At a packed, lively panel titled “Nobody’s Damsel: Writing for Tomorrow’s Women,” Sam Maggs, author of “The Fangirl’s Guide to the Galaxy” and a contributor to the feminist geek culture site themarysue.com, noted that women and girls made up roughly half of all comic-book buyers, video game players and Comic-Con badge holders. At the same time, she said, only 13 percent of the people professionally involved in making comics and games are women. While this discrepancy is frustrating, Ms. Maggs is optimistic about the capacity of fans to help change it.

“It’s a newly visible thing,” she said in an interview on Thursday afternoon, after the panel had concluded. “All different kinds of people have always liked these stories. Because even though they haven’t always been super-representative in terms of diversity, they are really universal stories. Everyone can identify with them.” Women and nonwhite fans, she added, “have traditionally been shut out of the places where you could discuss” comics and games. “In online message boards, 10 years ago, you would never say you were a woman, because that’s all anyone would talk about. Or you would walk into a comic-book store, and someone would question your cred, and you’d feel like you want to leave. But that’s not the case anymore.”

According to Ms. Maggs, social media has made the difference, though she acknowledged that women were often subjected to harassment and abuse online. “We’re able through places like Twitter and Tumblr to form communities of women and other diverse people in which we feel empowered to say, ‘These are the things that we like,’ and ‘These are the things we’re missing.’ Not only can we say them with a large and loud voice, we can also say them directly to the content creators. So we can go directly to Marvel and directly to DC and say: ‘We have all this money, all this buying power. Why aren’t you catering to us?’ And they kind of have to listen.”

Read in Chinese | 点击查看本文中文版

One day five years ago, Shrimp Boy found himself in a hardware store in Chinatown in San Francisco, buying big plastic paint buckets to make pruno. Pruno is jailhouse wine, and Shrimp Boy was an experienced vintner, though he had only ever made pruno in an empty fire extinguisher, because that’s how the masters make it in prison. Yet there Shrimp Boy was, a middle-aged former Chinese-mafia don, now a free man, living at his girlfriend’s condo in San Francisco’s Potrero Hill neighborhood, trying to become what he called ‘‘normal’’ — a state he found exotic and thrilling. Normal, to Shrimp Boy, included mild environmentalism, like conserving gas (‘‘Nobody in prison thinks about the next generation!’’); scooping up after his girlfriend’s dogs, a terrier named Happy and a mastiff named Valentine; and hosting dinner parties, like the one for which he was making pruno. The entire menu was prison food. His girlfriend was curious about it, and he wanted to please her. As Shrimp Boy told me recently: ‘‘I learned a lot from normal people. She’s very square, strict.’’

Shrimp Boy’s prison-party dishes included a dip made with smoked oysters ­(available in the commissary) and ‘‘the tuna and the jalapeño, green onions and mayonnaise,’’ he said. ‘‘We put that on a Ritz cracker or corn chip — that’s a very good spread. We also make the pork- and the chicken-tamale-egg-roll kind of thing.’’ The tamale-egg-roll kind of thing, which Shrimp Boy ate when he could abscond with some leftover grits from breakfast in prison, is made by spreading the cooled, thickened grits out flat like sushi rice, adding a chicken or pork filling, rolling it all up, wrapping the log in a damp paper towel and a piece of plastic trash bag and steaming it in a microwave. Shrimp Boy’s pruno is a classic blend: grapefruit juice (for acid), apple juice (for sugar), bread (for yeast) and orange slices. Eight days before the party, Shrimp Boy placed all the ingredients in a paint bucket, then left the bucket on his girlfriend’s porch, in the sun, so its contents could ferment. A couple of hours before the guests arrived, Shrimp Boy strained the pruno through his girlfriend’s stockings. ‘‘I felt pretty funny about that,’’ he told me, as if he strongly suspected that this wasn’t normal but wasn’t totally sure.

Shrimp Boy met his girlfriend, Alicia Lo, one night in a club in 2008. Lo is a U.C. Berkeley graduate from the upscale Bay Area suburb Walnut Creek, beautiful, the mother of an 11-year-old daughter and fairly normal, though not so normal that she wouldn’t date Shrimp Boy. (His given name is Kwok Cheung Chow; Lo calls him Raymond, the name a teacher gave him during the one month he attended high school. Shrimp Boy calls himself Shrimp Boy.) When Lo began Shrimp Boy’s re-education, she told me, she treated him ‘‘as a foreigner’’ or ‘‘like a baby.’’ ‘‘He was so out of place in society,’’ she said. ‘‘He drove an old bulletproof Mercedes.’’ So Lo started teaching Shrimp Boy the contemporary San Francisco basics: to hold her daughter’s hand when crossing the street, to not throw trash out car windows, to put the recycling in the blue garbage can and the vegetable scraps in the green compost one.

Shrimp Boy’s transition from gang boss to upstanding citizen was not always easy. For instance, Shrimp Boy organized a field trip for students at Lo’s daughter’s school to participate in the Chinese New Year parade. But some parents complained that a man who had spent close to two decades in prison should not be involved with children. Shrimp Boy’s feelings were badly hurt when the principal informed him that he could no longer volunteer. Shrimp Boy made some more egregious missteps too. While taping a 2008 segment for the TV series ‘‘Gangland,’’ he gloated, ‘‘In this city, I’m the man that calls the shots.’’ (He later attributed this to a grammatical error; Shrimp Boy learned English as a second language, and he said he meant to use the past tense — that he was the man who called the shots.) In hindsight, Shrimp Boy also probably should not have worn all white to the funeral of a murdered rival Chinese gang leader in 2006.

But given where he came from — as a United States attorney put it in a recent court filing, he has an ‘‘extensive and horrible criminal record’’ involving ‘‘almost all manner of racketeering possible’’ — he did pretty well. He counseled at-risk high-school students about addiction to crime. Shrimp Boy worked with a ghostwriter on a memoir he titled ‘‘Son of the Underworld.’’ He gave advice to young men who sought him out — what to do if, say, you fall in love with a prostitute and want to take her home to your Chinese parents. He told fellow ex-cons about the solace he found in Lo’s dogs. He cooked oxtail soup, enjoyed Marvel comics and learned to paint faces to entertain Lo’s daughter after school.

But at dawn on March 26, 2014, while Shrimp Boy, Lo and her daughter were asleep in her home, law-enforcement officers broke down the front door, semiautomatic weapons drawn. ‘‘That didn’t scare me,’’ Shrimp Boy said. ‘‘What really scared me was worrying about Alicia and her daughter and the two dogs. They never had that kind of thing around.’’ To minimize the havoc — it was a school day — Shrimp Boy cooperated, and as he lay on the living-room floor in handcuffs, with more than a dozen people standing above him, he thought back through his recent activities. ‘‘I didn’t sell no drugs,’’ he recalled thinking. ‘‘I didn’t have no gun. I didn’t have no money.’’ Then, he said: ‘‘I kind of laughed. What I did is O.K.! I’m a changed man!’’

On Nov. 2, in Judge Charles Breyer’s courtroom at the Federal District Court for the Northern District of California, Shrimp Boy, who is 55, is scheduled to stand trial on 140 counts, including racketeering, money laundering, conspiracy and trafficking in contraband cigarettes. Between 2008 and 2014, the F.B.I. ran a sting called Operation Whitesuit. Confidential informants infiltrated San Francisco’s Chinatown and presented Shrimp Boy, who the government claims was back in the gang business, with opportunities to participate in crimes, including drug trafficking and murder for hire. Shrimp Boy claims he abstained.

Shrimp Boy and his lead lawyer, J. Tony Serra, are both characters from a bygone San Francisco. Shrimp Boy describes Serra, who is 80, as ‘‘an old, very old wizard.’’ Earlier in his career, in 1979, Serra successfully defended the Black Panther Party co-founder Huey Newton against the charge of murdering a prostitute. He has also represented members of the Hells Angels, Earth First! and the Symbionese Liberation Army, the revolutionary group that kidnapped Patty Hearst. His office is filled with threadbare furniture and Grateful Dead posters, as well as posters featuring the work of his younger brother, the sculptor Richard Serra. They have been estranged for almost 40 years, since their mother committed suicide by walking into the Pacific Ocean.

‘‘I’m just so happy I’m not dead,’’ Serra, who has thinning white hair and less than a full set of teeth, told me on a recent Sunday morning at his office. He wore a tie-dye T-shirt that looked new. Within 10 minutes of my arrival, Serra described Shrimp Boy to me as ‘‘beautiful.’’ When I asked what he meant, he said: ‘‘Every time I go to talk to Shrimp Boy, it’s like being in the presence of a holy man. He’s soft and gentle and considerate and empathetic.’’ For Serra, representing Shrimp Boy is an honor and a privilege. ‘‘This is the type of case that any politically inclined lawyer — this is your holy grail,’’ he said. ‘‘This is a government-created crime. This is a five-year and probably $3 million investigation.’’ He concluded: ‘‘I’m just delighted to take on the goddamn case.’’

Serra grew up in a working-class family near San Francisco’s Ocean Beach. After playing football as an undergraduate at Stanford, he tried to become an expat writer in Morocco, but at that point he had never smoked a cigarette and was put off by the heroin and the opium. He returned to San Francisco, discovered the Haight and took a vow of poverty. He graduated from law school at U.C. Berkeley in 1961 and has worked almost exclusively pro bono since. Among Serra’s many strong beliefs is that nostalgia is a scourge — ‘‘the first sign of death,’’ he says. Still, it bears noting that one of the biggest cases of his early career also involved Chinatown. Serra exonerated, in a retrial, a Korean-American man convicted of the 1973 murder of a Chinatown gang leader. That case formed the basis of the 1989 movie ‘‘True Believer,’’ with James Woods starring as a character modeled on Serra.

Serra himself has served two prison terms, as a tax resister — four months in 1974 and 10 months in 2005. He would be happy to serve a third, should anyone care to arrest him. He loves life on the inside — ‘‘It’s like locking a doctor who likes to practice medicine in a hospital,’’ he once said. Less felicitous, to Serra, is contemporary, gilded San Francisco. (‘‘Look out the window! Do you see the common man?’’) Serra has no bank account, no credit card and no cellphone. ‘‘My DNA is nonmaterialistic,’’ he explained. He abhors what he perceives as the extravagance of American law enforcement after Sept. 11: As part of the sting, F.B.I. informants ate meals with Shrimp Boy at the Four Seasons, the Fairmont and the Ritz, according to a co-defendant’s filing.

A few weeks after Shrimp Boy’s arrest last March, Serra held a news conference. ‘‘These undercover agents sought to induce him, sought to involve him, sought to catch him in some overt act that represented criminal activity,’’ Serra told the journalists and friends of Shrimp Boy — many of whom were wearing ‘‘Free Shrimp Boy’’ T-shirts. ‘‘My client’s not a gangster.’’ The F.B.I., he said, ‘‘didn’t stop, you know, abort criminal activity that my client participated in.’’ Serra pointed to a picture of Shrimp Boy, who is 5-foot-4, nearly wrinkle-free and almost always smiling. ‘‘You saw a person,’’ Serra continued, ‘‘who is wholly dedicated to the Chinese culture. To love. Education. We represent an exemplary human being.’’ He paused to clarify for those familiar with the Shrimp Boy of the 1970s, ’80s and ’90s, a man who was convicted of racketeering, drug trafficking, arson, armed robbery and attempted murder. ‘‘I’m not talking before he went to prison,’’ Serra said. ‘‘I’m talking after he got out.’’

In Shrimp Boy’s pretrial defense, Serra, along with his co-counsel, Curtis Briggs, a former small-time criminal, has employed a legal strategy right out of the Merry Prankster handbook: Stand out, be aggressive and fight authority every step of the way. Serra, Briggs and other members of the team have accused the F.B.I. of racial profiling — setting a dragnet over Chinatown to catch Chinese people breaking the law. They have also demanded that Shrimp Boy’s case be dismissed on the grounds of selective prosecution: They argued in a motion that the same series of wiretaps that led to Shrimp Boy’s indictment also revealed that Mayor Ed Lee of San Francisco laundered campaign money. (The mayor’s office did not return calls and emails but has publicly denied this.) Judge Breyer ruled against the motion, but the local press ran with the story, which was largely the point.

Serra is cynical about many things. He believes that ‘‘law is class struggle.’’ He believes that judges ‘‘are not referees, they are bullies,’’ and that they make decisions ‘‘based on their own moral perspective.’’ But Serra still believes in juries, believes they are ‘‘the last avenue to the common mentality, and there is something beautiful in the American mentality.’’ He sincerely believes that a jury will hear Shrimp Boy’s story and let him go. ‘‘We have a person who did have an epiphany,’’ he said about Shrimp Boy’s decision to go straight and live a normal life, a person who didn’t succumb to the government’s yearslong campaign to lure him back into crime.

The prosecution, on the other hand, argues that Shrimp Boy was employing a classic strategy: ‘‘He did not have to get his hands dirty committing crimes and could insulate himself — although he did it poorly in the end — from the crimes being committed around him,’’ the government wrote in a filing. ‘‘The jury should be permitted to understand that Chow’s techniques were taught to him by his prior dai los.’’ (Dai lo is the Cantonese term for big brother, or mob boss.) Still, Serra is confident. To win this case, and any case, he said, ‘‘You have to show you have the moral high ground — that you have transcended the conflict as defined by the prosecution.’’ He paused, then added: ‘‘I have the Buddha here.’’

The visiting room of San Francisco County Jail No. 4 is on the seventh floor of the Hall of Justice, at 850 Bryant Street, across from Aladdin Bail Bonds and one block from Mint, a yoga, Pilates and barre-class studio. On weekend mornings, families wait in a concrete stairwell between the sixth and seventh floors. Over the past six months, I often joined the line. Each time, after a guard unlocked the door, I found Shrimp Boy among other inmates, sitting on a stool behind soundproof glass, waving me over to take a seat on the other side and pick up the phone. He started each conversation with: ‘‘Hello. How are you?’’ His face was far more relaxed than I expected, and his black plastic-framed glasses hung from the collar of his orange county-jail sweatshirt. He has soft hands and a shiny bald head. From our talks, both in jail and over the phone, and from his unpublished memoir, I learned the story of his life, at least according to Shrimp Boy; there are no public records of many of the details.

Kwok Cheung Chow was born in Hong Kong, where his grandmother nicknamed him Ha Jai, or Shrimp Boy. His father owned a successful barbershop, but when Shrimp Boy was 8, his father lost his business because of gambling debts. Shrimp Boy, his four brothers, his grandmother and his parents all moved from their nice apartment above the barbershop to a one-room shack with no running water. A year later, that shanty burned down, and Shrimp Boy’s family moved to a home with only two beds. Every night, Shrimp Boy fought to sleep next to his grandmother. He liked to hold onto her ear, for comfort, the way a child might cling to a stuffed animal.

When Shrimp Boy was 9, he told me, a local tough noticed his scrappiness and bravado — Shrimp Boy often puffed up his tiny body and told people he had won fights even when he lost. The tough took him on as a protégé, teaching him the ancient Chinese gang code of loyalty, trust, honor, dignity and respect, as well as the value of keeping a knife tucked in the waistband of your pants. Before long, Shrimp Boy says, he was working for his mentor, as a courier transporting small bags of heroin. Shortly after, Shrimp Boy showed up to watch his mentor in a fight. When the brawl started going badly, Shrimp Boy pulled out a huge, squared-off watermelon knife and leapt into the action. He whacked the blade, twice, on his mentor’s opponent’s head. Blood, exposed bone. This was the first significant violence of Shrimp Boy’s life. He became a local gang hero, which he really liked.

In 1976, when Shrimp Boy was 16, his parents moved the family to San Francisco. By then, he says, he was already an accomplished hoodlum — experienced in juvenile detention, practiced in not squealing to the police. Shrimp Boy carried with him to America a letter of recommendation, a to-whom-it-may-concern note from his Hong Kong gang leader. Shrimp Boy gave the letter to an elder in Chinatown, who introduced him around.

Instead of going to school, he applied his considerable ambition to climbing the tong ranks. The tongs were started by Chinese immigrants who came to California in the mid-1800s, for the Gold Rush and to work on the railroad. The immigrants experienced terrible discrimination. In 1856, the Californian Committee on Mines and Mining Interests declared the Chinese ‘‘a disgusting scab upon the fair face of society — a putrefying sore upon the body politic.’’ The Chinese looked to their own community for help. ‘‘No matter what you need, you go to the tong,” says Ko-lin Chin, a professor at the Rutgers School of Criminal Justice, describing 1800s San Francisco. ‘‘If a Chinese man dies and he doesn’t want to be buried in the United States, the tongs help ship the body back to China. If you need a notice read in English. If you need a loan.’’ The tongs also provided extralegal amenities, like prostitution, opium and gambling dens. To this day, tongs serve a range of roles, and they have spread to Chinatowns nationwide. Some tongs focus on extortion, others on scholarship funds. ‘‘It depends on the leadership,’’ says Chin, who notes that many tongs have a street gang, if not a connection to organized crime.

When Shrimp Boy was 17, he was dropped by a Hop Sing Tong lieutenant at a home in suburban Hillsborough. The tong, he says, had been hired by La Cosa Nostra, the Sicilian mafia, to land the resident of the house in the hospital for three months. Dressed in bell bottoms, a jeans jacket and platform shoes, he grabbed a two-by-four that happened to be propped by the front door. He beat the man brutally and left the house two minutes later. The next day, in a Chinatown restaurant, a tong boss gave Shrimp Boy a slice of custard pie and an envelope containing $3,000.

Shrimp Boy’s first arrest and conviction came a year later, in 1978. He was charged with armed robbery after he held up a gambling den and was sentenced to 11 years. At San Quentin, he beat a man with a food tray — Shrimp Boy told me that he used it like a tennis racket: ‘‘backhand, forehand, backhand, forehand’’ — and landed himself in solitary. A prison psychologist told Shrimp Boy he needed a vocation outside of crime. He studied to become a deep-sea welder, but a prison riot broke out, and he couldn’t complete his training. So he started dealing heroin in prison instead.

Upon his release, in 1985, Shrimp Boy took a bus to San Francisco. At a Vietnamese noodle shop, he tried to motivate himself to buy the Chinese newspaper and look for a real job. But then he noticed some girls outside. Pretty classy for hookers, Shrimp Boy thought. Within an hour, he was talking with them about how much money they made through their pimps and whether they would rather work for him. He rented a big Victorian house, and within a matter of months, Shrimp Boy says, his escort business was producing more cash than he could handle. He started rolling profits into a variety of enterprises: cocaine distribution, fencing stolen weapons, Rolexes, jewelry and pills. Shrimp Boy talks about that stage of his life as normal people often talk about college: Crazy time! Learned a lot! Needed to grow up and move on.

The first time Shrimp Boy tried to go straight, he says, was in 1989. He wanted to make his mother proud. She gave him a ritual bath with grapefruit leaves, to cleanse his spirit. Shrimp Boy found work at the Lucky market in Daly City, bagging groceries for $4.50 an hour. He worked hard and was promoted to janitorial staff at $7.25 — but then, he says, a member of the San Francisco Police Department’s gang task force called his boss, who became suspicious, and Shrimp Boy left his job. Next he found employment as a bodyguard, a slippery slope. One night he was working in a casino in Oakland, looking sharp and professional in his sleeveless undershirt and double-breasted suit, and before Shrimp Boy knew it he was walking around Stow Lake, in Golden Gate Park, with Peter Chong, a leader of a Hong Kong gang called Wo Hop To, talking about uniting the East Coast and West Coast heroin trades.

In April 1992, Shrimp Boy flew to New York to meet with gang leaders in Chinatown. Soon after, documents show, he was arrested and charged with 48 counts, among them RICO activities (the acronym refers to charges under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act), conspiracy to distribute heroin and cocaine, murder for hire, cocaine possession, arson, unlicensed firearm sales and transfers and a slew of interstate-commerce crimes — so many charges that the government split the case into two trials. Chong, meanwhile, fled to Hong Kong.

Shrimp Boy’s credo was: Never cooperate with the government. If you do, you have to debrief, or snitch — outlaw suicide. But to Shrimp Boy’s dismay, by the time the first of his two cases reached trial, in 1995, many of his associates had ratted him out. In his first trial, he was found guilty on six counts; he was later sentenced to 24 years. (The second trial ended in a hung jury.) Once incarcerated at California’s Federal Correctional Institute, Dublin, Shrimp Boy says, he reached out to his tong to evaluate the loyalty of his underlings. He found that they had turned on him. Shortly after, Chong, who had been extradited to the United States, betrayed Shrimp Boy as well — or so Shrimp Boy claims — by hiring away the attorney who represented Shrimp Boy in the second trial.

Shrimp Boy’s world crumbled: A gangster without a code or crew is just a lone felon. In 2000, in a prison conference room, Shrimp Boy says, he accepted a plea deal and decided to give up the underworld. Documents show that the government promised him a new life under the witness-protection program, an S visa (residence for a witness who assists law enforcement) and release on time served. In exchange, Shrimp Boy would testify against Chong. (Chong served time for racketeering and was released in 2008.) Shrimp Boy describes this act of testifying — aiding the United States attorney, selling out his onetime partner and the only set of values he had ever known — as the hardest experience of his life.

The 137-page affidavit of Special Agent Emmanuel Pascua, the document that led to Shrimp Boy’s most recent arrest, is a great read for a legal filing — drama, comedy, classical Greek tragedy, all right there on paper. It recounts the story of Operation Whitesuit, laying out the case against ‘‘Kwok Cheung Chow, a.k.a. Raymond Chow, a.k.a. Shrimp Boy, a.k.a. Ha Jai, hereinafter Chow,’’ along with 25 other Bay Area residents, including State Senator Leland Yee. (Yee and three other defendants pleaded guilty in July.) The F.B.I.’s most prominent informant is identified only as UCE (undercover employee) 4599. He posed as an East Coast emissary from La Cosa Nostra looking to make a name for himself on the West Coast. UCE 4599 met Shrimp Boy in May 2010. For the next four years, he ingratiated himself into Shrimp Boy’s world.

As Shrimp Boy explained to me over our many visits and phone calls, after he cut his deal with the federal government, things did not go as planned. Shrimp Boy was released on time served, but the government did not deliver the S visa or a new identity through witness protection. Instead, Shrimp Boy claims, the F.B.I. dropped him with an ankle monitor back in San Francisco — as bait to catch other criminals, he believes. At the time, he said, he had no real friends (who’s loyal to a snitch?), no legal means of earning money, no faith in gangsterism. Even if he had wanted to pursue organized crime, life was passing him by. ‘‘The new generation is about crime in the computer,’’ Shrimp Boy said — credit-card fraud, identity theft, cyber extortion. ‘‘I don’t even know how to use the computer.’’ Rudderless, Shrimp Boy lived with his brother and his brother’s girlfriend, who complained about how much toilet paper he used. He started having panic attacks. He visited a psychiatrist, who prescribed Ambien and sent him home.

Shrimp Boy says that at that point he ‘‘wanted to be part of society.’’ Toward that end, he started volunteering with gang-prevention organizations, telling high-school students to steer clear of trouble. As Shrimp Boy explains, ‘‘You get a gun, and then you want a bigger gun, and then you want a bigger gun. It’s human nature.’’ By 2007, Shrimp Boy was talking to dozens of community groups a year, including Asian-American studies classes at San Francisco State University. In 2009, he volunteered to organize San Francisco’s city-funded Chinatown Night Market — although when news of his involvement came to light, the city decided to skip the night market altogether that year. In 2012, Shrimp Boy spoke about his life to the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce, at the request of Steven Ford, a lieutenant with the city’s police department. During these years, Shrimp Boy acknowledges, he also rebuilt his network in Chinatown. In 2006, the Ghee Kung Tong’s leader, known as the dragonhead, was murdered, and Shrimp Boy ascended to that role, though he claims he was assiduously clean.

The affidavit of Special Agent Pascua indicates that during the years of Operation Whitesuit, Shrimp Boy was working on ‘‘a potential book deal and movie proposition regarding his life,’’ which would have allowed him to support himself legally. He was also dating Lo. When the two met in 2008, Lo told me, she considered herself to be ‘‘not such a good Chinese person.’’ She and Shrimp Boy fell in love and began a cultural exchange. Shrimp Boy took Lo to the tong, showed her how to bow down at the shrines and pay proper respects. Lo took Shrimp Boy to art openings, nice restaurants and the gay-pride parade.

During the time that Shrimp Boy was dragonhead, the affidavit also indicates, tong members sold drugs, contraband and illegal firearms; distributed drugs; and laundered money. Shrimp Boy deliberately maintained some distance from the crimes. As the affidavit reads, ‘‘Chow did not want to know anything because he would not be guilty if he did not know anything.’’

Shrimp Boy presented himself to UCE 4599 in mature, upstanding terms: ‘‘a judge within his organization’’; an esteemed elder dedicating his life to promoting ‘‘grand ideas’’; a tough guy who ‘‘could move hundreds of kilos of drugs if he wanted to,’’ but did not.

To a reader of the affidavit, Shrimp Boy comes across as a man who likes the idea of being normal, who even makes moves in that direction, but who has a fuzzy understanding of the concept. At one point, after UCE 4599 closed a deal to sell stolen cigarettes to China, he thanked Shrimp Boy.

‘‘I never did anything,’’ Shrimp Boy said.

‘‘Well, I did,’’ said Shrimp Boy’s driver, George Nieh, who was standing there. UCE 4599 gave Nieh $5,000.

Another time, UCE 4599 thanked Shrimp Boy for the opportunity to work with Nieh on a separate transaction, and he slipped an envelope containing $2,000 into Shrimp Boy’s pocket. ‘‘No, no, I didn’t give you the opportunity,’’ Shrimp Boy said. ‘‘You make your own opportunity.’’ He further protested: ‘‘Damn, that is bribery money, dude — that’s not good.’’ He did not give the money back.

At moments in the affidavit, the relationship between Shrimp Boy and UCE 4599 comes across as intimate, close to tender. Shrimp Boy whispered in UCE 4599’s ear in a karaoke bar. He told UCE 4599 that he loved him. But Shrimp Boy also said to UCE 4599 that ‘‘if anything happened to him, the person who did it would pay a tremendous price, and their life would disappear.’’

During the 19 months since his arrest, Shrimp Boy has been jogging in place in his cell, meditating and thinking about good and evil, whether he has lived a decent life. ‘‘Everybody has to grow up,’’ he told me. ‘‘I have to grow up more than most.’’ If he gets out, Shrimp Boy says, he will take care of his parents. He will pay taxes. Lo is not sure what their relationship will be when he gets out, but she still visits Shrimp Boy every weekend and attends his court hearings. ‘‘I love him so much,’’ she told me. But she needs a responsible adult in her life, a real partner, one who can read a grocery list and help fill out school forms.

‘‘I know I caused the trouble,’’ Shrimp Boy says. ‘‘I would do anything to fix it.’’ He has many regrets. Chief among them is that he never had children. ‘‘I didn’t see that when I was younger,’’ he told me. ‘‘The guy staying home, spending most of his time with his family — I envy the man like that. I don’t have anything. I’m 55, and I’m still in a county jail.’’

Serra is eager for the courtroom drama to start. He described defending a client before a jury as ‘‘like an acid experience. You merge — it’s like shooting someone up into your veins.’’ He continues to see Shrimp Boy as ‘‘transparent, courageous, spiritual.’’ But the road to the Nov. 2 court date has been uneven. On Sept. 9, six of Shrimp Boy’s co-defendants pleaded guilty, including George Nieh. Those pleas cleared the way for Shrimp Boy to go to trial alone, which Serra thinks is to his advantage. Less auspicious, the United States attorneys recently informed the court that they have evidence linking Shrimp Boy to the murders of a tong leader and a lieutenant. The prosecution noted in a court filing that it will use the fact that Shrimp Boy ‘‘greenlighted’’ murder to highlight ‘‘the true nature of the enterprise run by Chow and his associates.’’ After all, the prosecution reminded the court, sanctioning an enemy’s death is not standard at ‘‘the Moose Lodge or the local Rotary Club or legitimate tongs.’’

Still, most days, Shrimp Boy remains upbeat. ‘‘I’m a good man, I’m a regular man,’’ he tells himself. When he is feeling down, he listens to the Operation Whitesuit recordings and feels better hearing himself refuse the many criminal offers. ‘‘So many times I’m sitting here, I done something wrong!’’ he said. ‘‘Old temptations and addictions, I didn’t fall for that. Wow. I turned down a lot of opportunity.’’

He is especially proud of his discipline. ‘‘It’s like they baked me this cake, this delicious cake, and tried to get me to eat it, even rubbed it in my face,’’ he said. ‘‘But I didn’t eat it. I stuck to my diet.’’