Pitched battles between superheroes with huge fan bases? Check.

Enough explosions to flatten several Manhattans? Check.

Budgets over $250 million, not counting lavish marketing campaigns?

Double-check.

On paper, this season’s big superhero action films — “Captain America: Civil War” and “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” — from the rival studios Disney and Warner Bros. could almost be the same movie, so similar are their plots, action sequences and allusions to heavyweight themes of topical interest.

Still, “Batman v Superman” would seem to have the edge where it really matters to the studios, which is at the box office. It opened first (on March 25). It had the two most valuable intellectual properties in the comic book universe, appearing together in starring roles. And it had enough A-list Hollywood talent to fill a multiplex.

Yet the results are in, and it’s not even close. The theatrical run of “Batman v Superman” is all but over, with a worldwide box office gross of $871 million. “Captain America” has surged past $1 billion in just three weeks.

Warner insists its film will earn a profit. But given that the studio gets only about half the box-office gross, any profit margin will be slim after deducting the film’s enormous production and marketing costs. And that has to be a disappointment considering what the studio must have expected. (Marvel’s “Avengers” topped $1.5 billion in 2012.)

More worrisome for Warner and its parent, Time Warner Inc., is that “Batman v Superman” was supposed to reboot the entire DC Comics universe and create a multibillion-dollar superhero franchise to rival Marvel’s. Now that’s in question.

“This is a significant misstep for the DC brand,” said Doug Creutz, senior media and entertainment analyst for Cowen & Company. “They’ve damaged their credibility with their audience. I’m not saying they can’t recover, but their next few movies had better be really good.”

At one level, the explanation for the outcome is simple: “Captain America” is a much better movie. After a marathon of superhero moviegoing in Times Square this week, I can attest to that.

As a baby boomer who grew up glued to the Adam West “Batman” series that ran on TV from 1966 to 1968, I’m hardly a member of the high-testosterone teenage target audience. But I like a superhero blockbuster from time to time, and I appreciate good characters who convey some development over time, and a coherent (even if far-fetched) plot.

All of which “Batman v Superman” lacked. Despite some arresting visuals, the film focuses so intently on the flaws that drive its titular superheroes into battle that it manages to undermine the appeal of both characters. That left me with no one to root for and indifferent to the outcome. What’s a superhero movie without a hero?

“Captain America” sidestepped that problem by never calling into question the essential goodness of its hero characters, instead having them take sides on an issue over which reasonable minds might differ: Should heroes be subject to United Nations oversight?

As the Times movie critic A. O. Scott put it, “Collegial Misunderstanding” or “Intramural Pickup Game” would have been a more accurate subtitle than “Civil War.”

But you don’t need to take my word for it, or that of the established critics who praised “Captain America” and panned “Batman v Superman.” After a big opening weekend, attendance at “Batman v Superman” plunged, suggesting bad word of mouth. On the website Rotten Tomatoes, 91 percent of the audience said they liked “Captain America.” Just 67 percent liked “Batman v Superman.”

The starkly different outcomes show how difficult it is to make a successful blockbuster, even for a studio with an enviable track record like Warner Bros. (“Harry Potter,” “Lord of the Rings”). Sony faltered with its latest Spider-Man installment and forged a partnership with Marvel allowing its superhero to return to the Marvel fold. Fox has at times struggled with its X-Men franchise.

But whatever secret code of art and science produces a superhero blockbuster, Disney seems to have cracked it. “Captain America” is the 13th consecutive successful installment in the Marvel film universe. After buying Marvel for $4 billion, Disney has turned even obscure comic book characters into box-office bonanzas (“Ant-Man”), and it has managed to combine them in unexpected yet captivating ways.

Much of the credit goes to Kevin Feige, the 42-year-old president of Marvel Studios, who runs the studio with an unusual degree of artistic independence. He reports to Alan Horn, chairman of Walt Disney Studios, who gives him wide latitude. (Mr. Horn was pushed out as president of Warner Bros. even after overseeing the successful “Dark Knight” Batman trilogy.)

People who know him told me Mr. Feige lives and breathes the Marvel universe and has a deep and intuitive understanding of its characters and their fans. “He’s a total film and comic book buff,” said Michael Nathanson, a veteran Hollywood analyst and a partner at MoffettNathanson.

While individual directors put their stamp on Marvel films, they ultimately reflect Mr. Feige’s sensibility, and he got the sole producer credit for “Captain America: Civil War.”

“He’s the most underappreciated asset in Hollywood,” Mr. Creutz said. “What he’s done is nothing short of a miracle.”

By contrast, no one seems sure exactly who is responsible for “Batman v Superman.”

Warner has long been known as a director’s studio, meaning ultimate creative control lies with the director, which was presumably the case with the director of “Batman v Superman,” Zack Snyder.

Still, “it felt like filmmaking by committee,” Mr. Creutz said. “You can’t just do it by formula. That’s not how creativity works. You need someone with a vision who can make something great. There are only a limited number of people who can do that.”

Mr. Snyder may not be one of those people. He previously directed the 2013 Superman reintroduction “Man of Steel,” which wasn’t exactly a resounding success. It grossed about $668 million, and just 75 percent of the audience on Rotten Tomatoes liked it.

“I haven’t studied his work, but when Zack Snyder was named, I heard doubts about whether he was the right director for this movie,” Mr. Nathanson said. “He didn’t have the track record to deliver a movie this important.”

Mr. Creutz agreed: “Looking at this objectively, he wasn’t the right choice.”

The film had two producers: Deborah Snyder, the director’s wife, and Charles Roven, a veteran of Warner’s hugely successful Batman trilogy. But neither works for DC Entertainment. (Geoff Johns, DC’s chief creative officer, was one of six executive producers, along with Christopher Nolan, who directed the Batman trilogy, and Steven Mnuchin, Donald Trump’s national finance chairman.)

In trying to emulate Marvel’s approach, Warner may also have been trying to accomplish too much in one film. In addition to putting Batman and Superman into the same film, four other DC characters, all destined for starring roles in future movies, make at least cameo appearances: Wonder Woman, Aquaman, the Flash and Cyborg.

Critics objected to the blatant product placement. Wonder Woman seems awkwardly gerrymandered into the plot. Batman delivers a ponderous final speech that could (and probably will) run as a trailer for the forthcoming “Justice League: Part One.”

Marvel, too, teases future films (“Spider-Man” and “Black Panther” in “Civil War”) but seems more adept at it.

Marvel has invested many years and billions of dollars building its stable of characters. “Audiences have been with these characters for eight to nine years,” Mr. Nathanson said. “They’ve been on a journey with them.”

“Marvel,” Mr. Creutz said, “introduced its characters in stand-alone movies. Then it did the big tie-in movie with multiple characters. Warner said, ‘Let’s start with the tie-in movie.’ But multihero and multivillain movies are very hard to pull off.”

Warner seems to be heeding the criticism. It recently shuffled the management team overseeing the DC film universe.

“We’ve heard from the critics and the fans and the filmmakers who worked on this,” said Dee Dee Myers, head of corporate communications at Warner Bros. “We try to learn from every film and make the best movie we can the next time out. We feel we’re in a good position. We’re very excited about ‘Suicide Squad’ coming out in August and ‘Wonder Woman,’” which is scheduled for June 2017.

“Batman v Superman” is just one film, and no one I spoke to faults Warner’s DC strategy. “What Warner is trying to do makes a ton of sense,” Mr. Nathanson said. But execution is difficult. “Hopefully, the saga isn’t over,” he said.

LOS ANGELES — Welcome to the A-list, Deadpool.

In a triumph of audacious marketing, risky filmmaking and cost consciousness — at an old-line movie studio, no less — 20th Century Fox’s extremely R-rated “Deadpool,” starring Ryan Reynolds in a career-defining role (at last), broke box office records over the weekend, taking in about $135 million at North American theaters.

Going into the Valentine’s Day weekend, Hollywood expected ticket sales of roughly $70 million. But multiplex audiences, apparently hungering for the originality promised by Fox’s unusual advertising campaign, powered “Deadpool” to the biggest domestic opening on record for an R-rated movie. The previous record-holder was “The Matrix Reloaded,” which took in $118.3 million in May 2003, after adjusting for inflation.

“This tells me without any question that new and creative is what audiences want,” said Chris Aronson, Fox’s president of domestic distribution. Mr. Aronson said “Deadpool” could take in another $20 million on Monday, when many Americans are off work for Presidents’ Day. “My wrists are getting a little tired, but I will tape them up,” he added, joking that he had spent the weekend doing cartwheels.

Comedic, violent and sexually charged, “Deadpool” stars Mr. Reynolds as the title character, a Marvel Comics antihero with freakish self-healing powers. Directed by Tim Miller, a first-time feature filmmaker, the movie openly mocks Marvel films and finds Mr. Reynolds doing unconventional things for this genre, like talking directly into the camera.

The “mind-boggling” turnout could have ripple effects across Hollywood, said Paul Dergarabedian, a senior media analyst at comScore. From a business perspective, other studios — namely the Disney-owned Marvel — could face pressure from investors to spend less. Fox made “Deadpool” for a relatively inexpensive $58 million. To compare, Marvel’s “Ant-Man,” starring Paul Rudd, arrived to $57.2 million in ticket sales in July but cost $130 million to make.

3-D? Who needs it? “Deadpool” was released in a traditional format, relying instead on Imax theaters and a network of extra-large screens known as Premium Large Format, both of which charge higher prices, to bolster ticket sales.

Another takeaway involved advertising, said Shawn Robbins, a senior analyst at BoxOffice.com. Rather than playing it safe, Fox allowed its president of domestic marketing, Marc Weinstock, to go for broke. His subversive campaign included billboards depicting the red-suited Deadpool holding handguns in provocative positions; an extremely raunchy online trailer; having Mr. Reynolds live-tweet an episode of “The Bachelor” in character; and stunts tied to the Super Bowl, including Mr. Reynolds (as Deadpool) serving chimichangas from a food truck.

One of the more bizarre efforts included fake billboards that make “Deadpool” look like a Nicholas Sparks-style romantic drama. Mr. Weinstock also advertised the movie on billboards using an emoji for excrement; they were placed in fewer than 10 locations yet generated coverage from hundreds of websites and trended across social networks.

“The film ended up generating more mentions on Twitter than any movie other than ‘Star Wars’ over the past few months — and significantly more than ‘Guardians of the Galaxy’ and ‘Avengers: Age of Ultron’ to boot,” Mr. Robbins said in an email. The sharp-edged campaign succeeded in attracting not just the built-in in comic-book audience, but also what has become Hollywood’s hardest-to-reach audience: young men. Fox said that 60 percent of the audience was male.

“Deadpool” could do for Mr. Reynolds what “Iron Man” did for a struggling Robert Downey Jr. in 2008. (“Deadpool,” to compare, easily beat the first “Iron Man,” which arrived to $108.5 in adjusted ticket sales, spawning two blockbuster sequels.) Until now, Mr. Reynolds has struggled to find his footing in Hollywood. He notably suffered a misfire in 2009 by playing a sanitized version of Deadpool in “X-Men Origins: Wolverine.” Comic book fans had a fit.

After suffering a mega-flop last summer with “Fantastic Four,” Fox has lately been on a roll. The studio also had the No. 2 movie for the weekend, “Kung Fu Panda 3,” which took in $19.7 million, for a three-week domestic total of $93.9 million. Third place went to “How to Be Single” (New Line and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer), a $37 million romantic comedy. It collected about $18.8 million.

Ben Stiller’s heavily hyped “Zoolander 2” (Paramount Pictures) flopped in fourth place, taking in about $15.6 million, or roughly 24 percent less than the original, after adjusting for inflation. The movie, which cost about $50 million to make and is loaded with celebrity cameos, received dismal reviews and was poised to generate poor word of mouth. Ticket buyers gave it a C-plus grade in CinemaScore exit polls.

LONDON — Denise Gough has never been to New York: She swore to herself that she’d first visit as an actress. “I wanted to wait — I thought, one day I will do theater in New York, and that is how I will experience the city.”

Her dream is coming true, in quite spectacular fashion. This month, the Irish-born Ms. Gough brings her star performance in Duncan Macmillan’s “People, Places & Things” to St. Ann’s Warehouse. In February, she’ll be part of what she calls a “most gorgeous ensemble” and “the Marvel Comics of theater,” doing “Angels in America” with Andrew Garfield and Nathan Lane at the Neil Simon Theater on Broadway.

Mr. Macmillan’s scorching script centers on Emma, an actress and drug addict who checks into rehab after losing focus during a production of “The Seagull.” The play kinetically conveys the highs as well as the despairing, disorienting lows of addiction, with a lead part that demands an actress dig deep: Emma is fiercely intelligent and funny, but also destructive, damaged and vulnerable.

It’s a huge role, but Ms. Gough, 37, didn’t so much rise to the challenge as blow the theater’s roof off. She won the Olivier and other prizes for a performance described as both virtuosic and emotionally shattering, and was likened to Mark Rylance in “Jerusalem.”

This was less a gush and more a righteous roar of approval, however, with critics cheering that a secret star of British theater — so chameleonic that she’d gone underrecognized for over a decade — had finally smashed into success. The play, which originated at the National Theater, in a coproduction with Headlong, duly transferred to the West End.

But success came only just in time: If Ms. Gough hadn’t gotten the part, she was going to quit acting altogether. She’d had a year without any work, and was broke.

Over a recent lunch in a West London brasserie where she makes a joke of ostentatiously ordering lobster pasta, she’s able to laugh at how far she’s come. “I can’t believe it,” she said. “It’s completely nuts.”

Ms. Gough (it rhymes with cough), who’s lived in London since she was a teenager, is great company, her chat as quick and flashing as those very blue eyes. She clearly doesn’t suffer fools, and enjoys pricking actorly pretensions. (“I like to shout ‘Macbeth’ a lot.”) Yet beneath the expletive-riddled sarcasm dwells a spiritual belief that the universe is unfolding as it should; she rejected Catholicism, but retains some “faith in a higher power — something very personal to me.”

So when it came to Emma, she had a sense that it was meant to be. “People will laugh, but I feel like the characters find me,” she said. “The ones I’m supposed to play, I’m going to play.”

She still busted a gut to get it, however, even snorting a line of icing sugar when auditioning. “It was one of those mythic auditions,” recalled Mr. Macmillan, whose adaptation of “1984” just closed on Broadway. “This play needs a talent, someone very charismatic. Denise came in and grabbed it by the throat and wrestled it to the floor.”

Why does she think “People, Places & Things” connected so profoundly with audiences? “Do you know someone in your life that has addiction issues?” she threw the question back at me. “So does every single person in this room, yet it’s so shrouded in shame. Duncan tapped into our need to connect with each other about that stuff.”

Jeremy Herrin, the play’s director, acknowledged that “American culture is much more conversant in addiction narratives, with more purchase on self-help and the therapeutic conversation than us repressed Brits,” but contended that the subject is universal. And Ms. Gough’s performance is key. “Denise is so attuned to the subject matter,” Mr. Herrin continued. “She gets it. She’s very brave, very courageous.”

In rehearsals, where tears flow and vocal cords surely shred, it’s striking how Ms. Gough also frequently refers to time the company spent with addicts in a recovery center in South London.

“To me, it’s incredibly brave for an addict to get clean,” she said. “The most avant-garde thing you can do in the world today is live sober, because if there was ever a time you’d want to switch off all the feelings it’s now, right?”

Audience members would pour their hearts out to her after shows; she still wears a pendant necklace that a recovering addict sent her in gratitude. “It’s more than a play for me,” she explained. And she’s not about to jeopardize it by succumbing to excess herself.

“No, I’ve done it all — I don’t need to,’’ she said. “I am actually such a safe bet now, because my work is really important to me and I don’t want to be [expletive] that up.”

Ms. Gough is becoming a more regular screen presence, recently appearing in “Guerrilla,” John Ridley’s Showtime mini-series about the British black power movement. Next year she plays Keira Knightley’s lover in “Colette,” a film about the French novelist; Ms. Gough is Mathilde de Morny, who dressed in suits and was “one of the first women to identify as a man.”

Her heart belongs to the theater, however. Her first taste was playing Miss Hannigan in a school production of “Annie.” “I made the audience laugh,” she recalled, “and I remember thinking: ‘Yep, that feels nice, I’ll have more of that.’ ”

She grew up in Ennis, Ireland; her father was a head of fisheries, her mother a marriage counselor. She was the seventh of 11 children — which explains her love of applause.

“It is obviously psychological,” she said, “now, what I do for a living, is get attention. But I wasn’t brought up with the thought that acting was a possibility.” Stubbornly determined to prove her parents wrong, she moved to London at just 15, and after a precarious few years living in squats, won a scholarship to the Academy of Live and Recorded Arts.

Her experience has made her an outspoken supporter of immigration as well as government support for those out of work or on low incomes — a fraught subject in Britain.

“I am an immigrant, but the difference between me and the immigrants dying in the sea is that I’m white and English-speaking, and that to me is deeply troubling,” she said. “England saved my life, really. I took advantage of everything this country has to offer, and now I’m giving back.”

She is troubled by contemporary politics in her adopted home country, particularly Britain’s decision to leave the European Union. That, followed by the election of President Donald Trump, left her reeling. Yet “People, Places & Things” has also provided her with a framework for understanding the current turbulent state of the world.

”An addict has to hit rock bottom before they change their lives,’’ she said. ”Maybe the world is hitting rock bottom, and there’s going to be a glorious spiritual awakening where we all start looking after each other.”

Is she optimistic, ultimately? “I have to be otherwise I would top myself,” she answered. “I can’t lose hope. I refuse.”

On the heels of the four-week New York run of “People, Places & Things,” Ms. Gough will reprise the role she played this summer — another addict, the Valium-hooked Harper in Tony Kushner’s “Angels in America.”

But audiences can expect an unusually punchy Harper, not a hazy victim.

“Someone said to me, she’s really angry,” Ms. Gough explained. “Well, wouldn’t you be? Harper has to save herself. That’s why the speech at the end is pure joy. It’s got to be: ‘It’s going to be really hard, but I’m going to be free.’ Free from addiction, free from a husband that doesn’t love me, free to leave.”

Ms. Gough shakes her head. “God, the bravery of women.”

More listings for the new season: Art | Classical | Dance | Film | Pop | Theater

Two words you’ll see a lot of in this fall’s television season, sometimes in tandem: Marvel and Netflix.

Four new series based on Marvel Comics franchises are scheduled to appear before the end of the year (including “The Punisher” on Netflix, not listed here because it doesn’t have a premiere date yet). That will bring the number of live-action Marvel series to a stunning 11, on five different networks and streaming services.

Netflix, more than ever, corners the market on prestige: a new series from David Fincher (“Mindhunter”); a Margaret Atwood adaptation (“Alias Grace”) written by Sarah Polley; a period drama from Steven Soderbergh and Scott Frank (“Godless”); the return of “Stranger Things”; and Spike Lee’s remake of “She’s Gotta Have It.”

Those shows and many more are included in this roundup of the fall’s new series, plus a few notable returnees. Dates are subject to change.

THE DEUCE (HBO, Sept. 10) Countering the Netflix tide, HBO opens the fall with the latest series from its marquee name, David Simon (“The Wire”). Created by Mr. Simon and George Pelecanos, it’s a 1970s and ’80s period piece about the entwined histories of Times Square and the pornography industry, starring James Franco (playing twins) and Maggie Gyllenhaal.

THE ORVILLE (Fox, Sept. 10) Seth MacFarlane’s Trekkier-than-thou “Star Trek” homage is slightly comic and surprisingly, um, sincere. Apparently he’s spent the last two decades wishing he’d made “Galaxy Quest.” Mr. MacFarlane plays the new commander of the Orville, a midsize starship, and Adrianne Palicki plays his first officer, who’s also his ex-wife.

TOP OF THE LAKE: CHINA GIRL (SundanceTV, Sept. 10) Having fought the gender wars in the dystopian science fiction of “The Handmaid’s Tale,” where she played a sex slave, Elisabeth Moss is back at it in the noirish mystery of “Top of the Lake,” where she plays a cop in Sydney, Australia. In the second season of Jane Campion’s often visually arresting series, Ms. Moss’s Detective Robin Griffin investigates the death of an Asian prostitute with the help of a very tall policewoman played by Gwendoline Christie, better known as Brienne of Tarth from “Game of Thrones”.

NEWTON’S LAW (Acorn, Sept. 11) Deb Cox and Fiona Eagger, creators of the cult hit “Miss Fisher’s Murder Mysteries,” set in 1920s Melbourne, try their hands at a contemporary legal dramedy set in the same city.

1864 (MHz Choice, Sept. 12) A lavish 19th-century historical drama from the Danish Broadcasting Service, home of thrillers like “Borgen” and “The Bridge,” follows young Danes caught up in the disastrous Second Schleswig War against Prussia.

THE MINDY PROJECT (Hulu, Sept. 12) Mindy Kaling’s ever hopeful, mostly rueful romantic comedy returns for its sixth and final season. The Season 5 cliffhanger (spoiler alert!) left Ms. Kaling’s character, Mindy Lahiri, engaged but not yet married. Asked recently if the show would give Mindy a happily-ever-after ending, Ms. Kaling said, “I think that we do.”

BETTER THINGS (FX, Sept. 14) Pamela Adlon’s hilarious, joyously bleak celebration of single motherhood and middle-age prickliness enters its second season. This time, all 10 episodes were directed by Ms. Adlon and written by her, Louis C.K. or both.

RIVIERA (SundanceNow, Sept. 14) Julia Stiles plays the American wife of a European billionaire. After he dies on his yacht, she discovers — surprise! — that things are not what they seem. This 10-episode thriller is the second TV series from the filmmaker Neil Jordan, after “The Borgias.”

AMERICAN VANDAL (Netflix, Sept. 15) A half-hour satire of the Very Serious genre of true-crime documentary series — like Netflix’s own “Making a Murderer” and “The Keepers” — about a high school student expelled for tagging teachers’ cars.

El CHAPO (Univison, Sept. 17) The second season of Univision’s answer to Netflix’s “Narcos” — a fictionalized account of the career of the drug lord Joaquín Guzmán, known as El Chapo — includes a first for the Spanish-language network: English subtitles. (Season 1 is available with subtitles on Netflix, which, playing all the angles, is a co-producer of the series.)

THE VIETNAM WAR (PBS, Sept. 17) Ken Burns goes all in: 18 hours (his longest documentary since “Jazz” in 2000) in 10 episodes packed into two weeks. The Vietnam War has inspired countless books and films over the last six decades, but this series from Mr. Burns, his co-director Lynn Novick and the writer Geoffrey C. Ward will probably become a definitive history of the conflict for generations to come.

THE STATE (National Geographic Channel, Sept. 18) Peter Kosminsky (“Wolf Hall,” “White Oleander”) wrote and directed this fact-based mini-series about four Britons who go to Syria to join the Islamic State.

MIKE JUDGE PRESENTS: TALES FROM THE TOUR BUS (Cinemax, Sept. 22) Mike Judge’s first animated series since “King of the Hill” is a curious one: a documentary series about the high jinks of hard-living country music stars, with episodes devoted to carousers like Jerry Lee Lewis, Waylon Jennings and George Jones and Tammy Wynette. Animated interviews and recreations are mixed with live-action performances footage.

STAR TREK: DISCOVERY (CBS All Access, Sept. 24) The newest official “Trek” series (the first since “Enterprise” ended in 2005) is online-only at CBS’s digital service. A prequel to the original “Star Trek,” it stars Sonequa Martin-Green (“The Walking Dead”) and Michelle Yeoh as a Starfleet first officer and captain caught up in a cold war with the Klingons.

THE BRAVE (NBC, Sept. 25) Current cultural cycles, perhaps involving national insecurity, a hunger for official competence and the ubiquity of video games, deliver three shows this fall about special-forces teams that depict modern warfare in the glossy, fantastical terms of the broadcast-network drama. This is the first, and glossiest, with Anne Heche pushing the buttons in the Washington control room and Mike Vogel (“Under the Dome”) leading the team in the field.

THE GOOD DOCTOR (ABC, Sept. 25) David Shore, creator of “House M.D.,” returns with another hospital drama centered on a brilliant doctor who doesn’t play well with others. Freddie Highmore, star of the recently concluded “Bates Motel,” graduates from playing a young psychopath to playing a young surgeon with autism. (Mr. Shore developed the series with the actor Daniel Dae Kim, formerly of “Hawaii Five-0.”)

ME, MYSELF & I (CBS, Sept. 25) It probably didn’t hurt this comedy’s chances of being picked up that its time-jumping structure is slightly reminiscent of “This Is Us.” The central character is seen as a 14-year-old Michael Jordan worshiper (Jack Dylan Grazer), a 40-year-old struggling inventor (Bobby Moynihan) and a 65-year-old businessman (John Larroquette).

YOUNG SHELDON (CBS, Sept. 25) In “The Big Bang Theory,” Jim Parsons became a star playing a precocious child in the adult body of the physicist Sheldon Cooper. In this sentimental spinoff, Mr. Parsons provides “Wonder Years”-style narration while Iain Armitage (“Big Little Lies”) plays Sheldon as just a precocious child.

LAW & ORDER TRUE CRIME: THE MENENDEZ MURDERS (NBC, Sept. 26) A venerable franchise cozies up to a hot genre, perhaps with the success of FX’s “American Crime Story” in mind. The young actors Gus Halper and Miles Gaston Villanueva play Erik and Lyle Menendez, convicted in 1996 of killing their parents, and the interesting supporting cast includes Edie Falco, Anthony Edwards, Julianne Nicholson, Heather Graham and Josh Charles.

THIS IS US (NBC, Sept. 26) The multi-stranded family melodrama that was last season’s breakaway hit on the broadcast networks returns for its second season, with a third already booked.

LIAR (SundanceTV, Sept. 27) A she said-he said story about an accusation of rape, with the carefully orchestrated frustrations and outrages and overall sense of drowning that that entails. Joanne Froggatt of “Downton Abbey” plays the accuser, and Ioan Gruffudd of “UnReal” the accused, in a six-episode mini-series created by Harry and Jack Williams (“The Missing”).

ROSEHAVEN (SundanceTV, Sept. 27) The Australian stand-ups Luke McGregor and Celia Pacquola play a man who returns to his hometown in rural Tasmania and his best friend, who tags along after her husband dumps her on their honeymoon. Oblique Australian humor with shades of British favorites like “Doc Martin” and “Gavin and Stacey.”

SEAL TEAM (CBS, Sept. 27) The second of the season’s new special-forces shows stars David Boreanaz as the leader of SEAL Team Six, the “all-star team” of the SEALs. Sports clichés, family melodrama and video-game visuals will be thick on the ground.

MISSIONS (Shudder, Sept. 28) In 10 half-hour episodes — an unusual format for a science-fiction thriller — this French drama follows a European mission to Mars that receives an ominous warning from an American team that has already landed.

WILL AND GRACE (NBC, Sept. 28) Good idea or bad? Television comedy, at its best, is a much different place — darker, more complicated, more naturalistic — than it was when this conventional sitcom with then-unconventional characters was last produced in 2006. The original gang — Sean Hayes, Eric McCormack, Debra Messing and Megan Mullally — returns for this long-delayed ninth season.

BIG MOUTH (Netflix, Sept. 29) Thanks to the magic of animation, the comedians Nick Kroll and John Mulaney get to play sex-crazed, pubescent teenagers in this 10-episode comedy. Thanks to the freedom of Netflix, they get to use language and jokes you won’t hear on non-premium television. Mr. Kroll created the show with Andrew Goldberg, who was a producer on “Family Guy” and Seth MacFarlane’s assistant on “American Dad,” and the MacFarlane influence is obvious.

MARVEL’S INHUMANS (ABC, Sept. 29) Of the four Marvel shows expected to debut this fall, this — about a genetically altered race of superhumans whose royal family is forced to flee to Hawaii — is the one that kind of looks like “Game of Thrones.”

TIN STAR (Amazon, Sept. 29) Tim Roth plays a London cop named Jim with a violent alter ego named Jack. (Yes, you read that right.) Jim-Jack takes a job in the Canadian Rockies but can’t escape his demons, which are forced to the surface when he clashes with an oil company whose local liaison is played by Christina Hendricks (“Mad Men”).

CURB YOUR ENTHUSIASM (HBO, Oct. 1) Larry David’s painfully funny show, the true starting point for the comedians-playing-themselves genre, returns for its ninth season after a six-year hiatus. Most of the core cast returns, including Mr. David, Cheryl Hines, Jeff Garlin, Susie Essman, JB Smoove, Richard Lewis, Bob Einstein, Ted Danson and Mary Steenburgen.

GHOSTED (Fox, Oct. 1) Craig Robinson (“The Office”) plays the skeptic, a disgraced cop turned security guard, and Adam Scott (“Parks and Recreation”) plays the believer, a disgraced professor turned bookstore clerk, who are recruited by a government agency to chase aliens in this “X-Files”-meets-”Ghostbusters” parody.

TEN DAYS IN THE VALLEY (ABC, Oct. 1) A potentially satisfying 10-episode psychological crime thriller in which work-life balance is one of the primary suspects. Kyra Sedgwick plays a TV producer on the single-mom roller coaster — unhelpful ex, brutal schedule, red wine, Adderall, cocaine — whose daughter goes missing. Tassie Cameron (“Rookie Blue”) wrote and Carl Franklin directed the stylish pilot.

WISDOM OF THE CROWD (CBS, Oct. 1) Jeremy Piven plays a Silicon Valley entrepreneur who, in the wake of his daughter’s murder, develops a way to crowdsource crime-solving — turning detection into a cross among an elaborate Google search, a plea for Facebook recommendations and a mass game of Pokemon Go. The pilot notes the possibilities for vigilantism and mob justice without really addressing them.

9JKL (CBS, Oct. 2) The head-scratching title is the number of the apartment into which an actor (Mark Feuerstein, playing a character based on himself) moves after his TV show fails. On one side live his parents (Linda Lavin and Elliott Gould!) and on the other his brother and sister-in-law (David Walton and Liza Lapira). High jinks ensue in a radically retrograde laugh-track sitcom.

THE GIFTED (Fox, Oct. 2) it’s a Marvel show, part of the X-Men storyverse, but this new series may most strongly remind you of a non-Marvel property, “Heroes.” Stephen Moyer (“True Blood”) and the very gifted Amy Acker (“Person of Interest”) star as parents who go on the run with their mutant children.

THE HALCYON (Ovation, Oct. 2) If you have a taste for sprawling British soap operas based on work — “Mr. Selfridge,” “Downton Abbey,” “Call the Midwife,” “The Crown” — you may want to check out this new series from the British network ITV set in a London Hotel in 1940.

KEVIN (PROBABLY) SAVES THE WORLD (ABC, Oct. 3) Originally called “The Gospel of Kevin” and delayed by recasting and other issues, this sitcom stars Jason Ritter as a loser recruited by a celestial being (Kimberly Hebert Gregory of “Vice Principals”) to save the world.

THE MAYOR (ABC, Oct. 3) A candidate with no political experience, who’s just trying to promote his business ventures, captures the voters’ imaginations and wins. The Trump parallels are obvious in this new comedy, but the charming pilot is so determined not to offend that it’s practically nonpolitical. Brandon Micheal Hall of “Search Party” plays the young rapper who finds himself governing a Northern California town.

GHOST WARS (Syfy, Oct. 5) Simon Barry, creator of “Continuum” — one of the better examples of the low-budget Canadian science-fiction series that Syfy lives on — is behind this show about a town in Alaska that’s a paranormal hot spot. Avan Jogia (“Twisted”) and Vincent D’Onofrio star.

RILLINGTON PLACE (SundanceNow, Oct. 5) This BBC mini-series based on the life of the serial killer John Christie stars Tim Roth, Samantha Morton and Nico Mirallegro in the roles played by Richard Attenborough, Judy Geeson and John Hurt in the 1971 film “10 Rillington Place.”

VALOR (CW, Oct. 9) Another special-forces show, this time a conspiracy thriller about members of an elite helicopter crew who confront a cover-up after a mission goes bad. The show’s creator, Kyle Jarrow, has an unusual pedigree for action TV: He won an Obie award in 2004 for “A Very Merry Unauthorized Children’s Scientology Pageant.”

DYNASTY (CW, Oct. 11) Josh Schwartz (“The O.C.,” “Gossip Girl”) is among the producers of this reboot of the seminal 1980s prime-time soap, which relocates the filthy-rich Carringtons from Denver to Atlanta. The pilot includes hair pulling, but no one falls into a pool.

MR. ROBOT (USA, Oct. 11) Bobby Cannavale joins the cast for the third season of Sam Esmail’s cult-favorite paranoid thriller, playing a character described as a used-car salesman.

I LOVE YOU, AMERICA (Hulu, Oct. 12) It’s like a late-night show, but not really, because it’s on Hulu. The often scabrous Sarah Silverman becomes the latest comedian to take on a weekly topical series, promising monologues, interviews and field segments focusing on what she calls “un-like-minded” people.

MINDHUNTER (Netflix, Oct. 13) David Fincher started the streaming-drama boom, and gave Netflix immediate credibility in original content, with “House of Cards.” His second Netflix series (he’s an executive producer and directed multiple episodes) is in the vein of films like “Zodiac” and “Se7en”: Jonathan Groff and Holt McCallany play F.B.I. agents who try to get inside the heads of serial killers.

QUEERS (BBC America, Oct. 14) Ben Whishaw, Russell Tovey, Rebecca Front and Alan Cumming are among the stars of this series of short films directed by Mark Gatiss (“Sherlock”) to mark the 50th anniversary of the legislation that began to decriminalize homosexual acts in Britain.

WHITE FAMOUS (Showtime, Oct. 15) Jay Pharaoh (“Saturday Night Live”) plays a Jamie Foxx-like character in this comedy based on Mr. Foxx’s experiences as a rising young comedian and actor.

HIT THE ROAD (Audience Network, Oct. 17) The “Partridge Family” for the 21st century, with weed and penis jokes. Jason Alexander plays the father (and drummer) of the touring family band, who lays down rules like “No No. 2 on the bus.”

LOUDERMILK (Audience Network, Oct. 17) Peter Farrelly and the “Colbert Report” writer Bobby Mort created this therapy comedy (remember “Help Me Help You”?). Ron Livingston of “Sex and the City” — admit it, it’s still what you think of when you hear his name — plays the bitter recovering alcoholic who seems like an unlikely choice to lead an addiction rehab group.

THE WALKING DEAD (AMC, Oct. 22) The zombie-apocalypse survivors walk into their eighth season, though in Season 7 the average number of viewers following them was down about 3 million from the show’s peak. If you’re looking for a clue to what’s coming, the series is now at the point in the “Walking Dead” comic books called “All Out War.”

AT HOME WITH AMY SEDARIS (TruTV, Oct. 24) Ms. Sedaris’s latest venture in not-quite-lighthearted surreality is a mock homemaking show in which she instructs guests (including Rachel Dratch and Jane Krakowski) in skills like gutting trout and crocheting miniature sweaters.

RYAN HANSEN SOLVES CRIMES ON TELEVISION (YouTube Red, Oct. 25) Best known for playing the frat-boy Lothario Dick Casablancas on “Veronica Mars,” Mr. Hansen re-emerges playing himself in this cop-show parody. He’s an actor who, as part of a new Los Angeles Police Department program, is partnered with a detective (Samira Wiley of “The Handmaid’s Tale”).

STRANGER THINGS (Netflix, Oct. 27) The sleeper hit of 2016 returns for a second season of small-town nostalgia wrapped in science-fiction action, or vice versa. Sean Astin (“The Lord of the Rings”) and Paul Reiser (“Aliens”), who both have experience with nonhuman monsters, join the cast.

BACK (SundanceNow, Nov. 2) The comedy duo David Mitchell and Robert Webb (“Peep Show,” “That Mitchell and Webb Look”) play foster brothers fighting over a family business in this series created by Simon Blackwell (“In the Thick of It,” “Veep”).

S.W.A.T. (CBS, Nov. 2) This remake of the notorious, short-lived 1975 series tries, in its pilot, to combine gun-heavy cop fantasy and socially aware community-policing boosterism. You’ll have to sit (or fast-forward) to the end to hear the iconic theme music.

ALIAS GRACE (Netflix, Nov. 3) No one’s having a better year on television than Margaret Atwood. “The Handmaid’s Tale,” based on Ms. Atwood’s 1985 novel, is nominated for 13 Emmy Awards, and this six-episode Canadian series, based on another of her novels, is one of the most anticipated projects of the fall. The book, which fictionalizes a sensational 1843 murder case, has been adapted by Sarah Polley (a fine filmmaker herself) and directed by Mary Harron.

SMILF (Showtime, Nov. 5) The “S” in the title stands for Southie, the Boston neighborhood the show’s 20-something single-mother heroine, Bridgette, calls home. Frankie Shaw (Elliot’s girlfriend, Shayla, in “Mr. Robot”) is the writer, director and star of the semi-autobiographical comedy, and Rosie O’Donnell plays Bridgette’s mother.

THE LONG ROAD HOME (National Geographic, Nov. 7) An eight-episode mini-series, set in the Sadr City section of Baghdad and at Fort Hood, Tex., and based on the television reporter Martha Raddatz’s book about a devastating ambush of a First Cavalry Division patrol in 2004.

FUTURE MAN (Hulu, Nov. 14) The busy Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg, executive producers of the distinctive comic drama “Preacher” on AMC, are also involved with this new time-travel comedy. Josh Hutcherson of the “Hunger Games” movies plays a janitor put in charge of saving the human race. (The first five episodes will include the actress Glenne Headley, who died on June 8 while the series was being filmed.)

STEP UP: HIGH WATER (YouTube Red, Nov. 15) The “Step Up” dance-film franchise goes episodic with this digital series set in an Atlanta performing-arts school and starring Naya Rivera and Faizon Love. Channing Tatum, the star of the original film, is an executive producer.

SEARCH PARTY (TBS, Nov. 19) TBS isn’t where you’d expect to find a millennial comedy of existential dread posing as a missing-person mystery, but here it is, entering its second season.

MARVEL’S RUNAWAYS (Hulu, Nov. 21) What if those boring cheese-and-crackers parties your parents hold with their friends were actually meetings of a secret criminal society? During which they go to the basement, put on red robes and conduct what looks a lot like human sacrifice? “Runaways” takes Marvel’s stock theme of teenage rebellion to its logical conclusion as six teenagers unite to battle their own parents.

GODLESS (Netflix, Nov. 22) Steven Soderbergh is an executive producer of this period-western mini-series written and directed by Scott Frank, who wrote the film “Out of Sight” for Mr. Soderbergh. (More recently he wrote “The Wolverine” and “Logan.”) It’s a grim-sounding revenge tale, with Jeff Daniels as the leader of an outlaw gang and Michelle Dockery as a rancher who hides one of his enemies.

SHE’S GOTTA HAVE IT (Netflix, Nov. 23) Spike Lee remakes his 1986 debut film as a 10-episode Netflix series. DeWanda Wise (“Shots Fired”) plays the Brooklyn artist Nola Darling, object of multiple men’s affections, and Anthony Ramos of “Hamilton” plays Mars Blackmon, the role that made Mr. Lee an instant star.

HAPPY! (Syfy, Nov. 29) Christopher Meloni, who played a burned-out cop in “Law & Order: SVU,” here plays a burned-out cop turned hitman. Any resemblance between the shows ends quickly, however, when the hitman’s life is changed by the appearance of a small, blue, winged horse named Happy (voiced by Patton Oswalt).

WORMWOOD (Netflix, Dec. 15) Errol Morris tackles the true-crime series in his own idiosyncratic fashion: This six-episode documentary about the 1953 death of the bioweapons scientist and C.I.A. employee Frank Olson will include scenes with the actor Peter Sarsgaard playing Olson.

THE CROWN (Netflix, Dec. 8) The highly praised dramatization of the life and reign of Queen Elizabeth II enters the second of a planned six seasons.

More listings for the new season: Art | Classical | Dance | Film | Pop | Theater