“Deadpool,” a Marvel Comics superhero movie with a wealth of self-mocking winks, arrives on HBO. And Netflix presents “Amanda Knox,” a documentary about the American student accused of murder in Italy. 

DEADPOOL (2015) 8 p.m. on HBO. Ryan Reynolds is back in a superhero costume (remember “Green Lantern” in 2011?) for this at once sincere and satirical Marvel Comics movie. “In uniform, the title character, an ordinary mercenary turned freakishly powerful mercenary, may look a little like Spider-Man, at least to the comic-book agnostic,” Manohla Dargis wrote in The New York Times. “But Deadpool is far more psychotic than heroic, which he cheerfully establishes by painting the screen red with one kill after another. He points, shoots, jokes (repeat), often while cracking wise right into the camera.” Expect every comic book trope — the buxom lover, for example, or the British bad guy — but always with a wink. It’s also streaming on HBO Go and HBO Now.

48 HOURS 9 p.m. on CBS. You may recognize this case from Richard Linklater’s 2011 film, “Bernie.” A widow worth millions is found dead — her body hidden in a freezer — and her companion, Bernie Tiede, an assistant funeral director 40 years her junior, confesses to the killing and is sentenced to life in prison. That is, until Mr. Linklater’s movie came out, with Jack Black in the role of Mr. Tiede. Since then, there have been turns worthy of a Hollywood sequel; Peter Van Sant reports on them in “The Mortician, the Murder, the Movie.”

VERSAILLES 10 p.m. on Ovation. Do you miss the lush decadence of “Downton Abbey”? Enter this period drama about France’s most famous kitschy palace and the king who built it. This, however, won’t be the playful Versailles of Sofia Coppola’s 2006 film, “Marie Antoinette.” After all, its founding king was Louis XIV, known for supposedly declaring, “I am the state.” As with many dramas in this vein, there will be plenty of the requisite intrigue and anachronistic sexiness.

SATURDAY NIGHT LIVE 11:30 p.m. on NBC. Margot Robbie is the host, and the Weeknd is the musical guest in the 42nd season premiere of “S.N.L.” — but more important may be whatever political satire this sketch show has cooked up as we enter the final weeks of the presidential race. Kate McKinnon returns with her wide-eyed Hillary Clinton, and Alec Baldwin has signed on to play Donald J. Trump.

AMANDA KNOX (2016) on Netflix. Ms. Knox’s time as a student abroad in Italy took a dark turn in 2007, when she was accused of killing her housemate, Meredith Kercher, a British student. In this documentary, the directors Brian McGinn and Rod Blackhurst tell the story of what followed: an eight-year battle with the Italian legal system (she was ultimately exonerated in 2015) and a media sensation run amok. The film is “a savage denunciation of the way entertainment imperatives have corrupted the news media,” Jeannette Catsoulis wrote in The Times. “At this singular moment in our political history, the resonance is deafening.”

Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Sign up.)

Let’s turn it over to Brooks Barnes, our Hollywood reporter based in Los Angeles.

A few years ago, Disneyland pruned some overgrown trees, and some guests had an absolute fit. A Disney executive told me at the time that one outraged annual pass holder started an email like this: “HOW DARE YOU.”

So imagine the din that has broken out around Disney’s plans to re-theme one of its most popular Anaheim rides. The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror, a haunted 1930s-era hotel with wildly malfunctioning elevators, will close in January and reopen a few months later as a new ride with a jaunty story line based on Marvel’s “Guardians of the Galaxy.” It will be Disney’s first Marvel ride in the United States since buying that comics company in 2009.

“Un-called for and absurd” is how an online Save the Tower petition signed by more than 35,000 people described the plan. At least one group intends to hold a vigil. One fan blog chastised Disney for a “lack of imagination,” adding that Mickey Mouse “may as well surrender” to Universal theme parks. Most of the comments on an explanatory video posted by Marvel on Oct. 4 are not kind.

A tempest in a (spinning) teapot? Perhaps.

There are sensible reasons for the overhaul. It’s about future plans to turn that entire corner of the two-park Disneyland Resort into a Marvel area. It’s about staying relevant; a vast majority of guests have no connection to “The Twilight Zone,” which was popular on CBS in the 1960s, but they do know “Guardians of the Galaxy,” which took in $773 million at the global box office in 2014. It’s about corporate synergy.

Even so, the outcry says something interesting about the property’s relationship with locals and the challenges that Disney faces when making changes (rest assured, some people will yell, and they now have social media as a megaphone). Disney’s magic trick, of course, is to have it both ways: The company’s parks sell nostalgia, but they must also appeal to the Snapchat generation.

As a Southern Californian with an annual Disneyland Resort pass, I think the “Galaxy of the Guardians” plans sound interesting. (For the record, the Tower of Terror will live on at Walt Disney World in Florida.) But consider this public advance notice, Disney: Mess with the Enchanted Tiki Room at your own peril.

• In 1998, voters in California restricted bilingual education in public schools. In 2016, they may vote to expand it, Jennifer Medina reports. [The New York Times]

• Outbid, out-hustled, outmuscled: Donald J. Trump has never been able to conquer Southern California. [Los Angeles Times]

• Officials said a man wearing body armor tried to kill two police officers in Vallejo. Then his weapon jammed. [The Associated Press]

• Speaking in San Diego, the president of one of the nation’s largest police organizations apologized for the past mistreatment of racial minorities. [The New York Times]

• The Dalian Wanda Group wants to be an entertainment superpower. It would like to start by getting more American movies made in China. [The New York Times]

• Silicon Valley has discovered Pescadero and the surrounding region, where billionaires are scooping up large chunks of land. [The Mercury News]

• “It’s a domino effect for the rest of the nation”: What legal marijuana in California would mean for the country. [PBS NewsHour]

• David Antin, whose so-called “talk poems” introduced a radical new form into American poetry in the 1970s, died in San Diego. [The New York Times]

• What does Bob Dylan think about winning the Nobel Prize? The Swedish Academy doesn’t know. It hasn’t spoken with him. [The New York Times]

• Rainfall has brought the waterfalls back to life in Yosemite National Park. Check out this video. [Facebook/CBS47 Fresno]

On Monday, we asked readers where we should look for a reporting project on homeless encampments in California. Hundreds of ideas poured into our inbox.

Among places mentioned up and down the state were Eureka, Santa Rosa, Modesto, Palm Springs, San Diego and, of course, various parts of Los Angeles and San Francisco.

Megan Kreuz described tent cities in Oakland. “It’s intense and sad,” she wrote. “I wish our city could do more to help.”

Kirk Davis said Redding had been “taken over” by homelessness: “Police and mental health services are completely overwhelmed.”

And Jenoa Sandlin, who works with homeless veterans in Orange County, said many of her clients live in their cars and shower at gyms where they have memberships. “This is truly an invisible type of homelessness,” she wrote.

We’d love to hear more. Tell us: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

Do you know how to “drop, cover and hold on”?

On Thursday, more than 10 million Californians are expected to practice the drill in schools, offices and homes as part of an earthquake safety exercise.

The timing is appropriate.

It was this week in 1989 that the Loma Prieta earthquake struck, killing 63 people, injuring thousands and causing billions of dollars in damages.

The shaking began at 5:04 p.m. on Oct. 17, as Americans were tuning in to watch Game 3 of the World Series between the Bay Area rivals, the Giants and the Athletics, at San Francisco’s Candlestick Park.

As a result, it became “probably one of the most watched natural disasters in American history,” said Art Agnos, San Francisco’s mayor at the time, in a 2014 Retro Report documentary.

Perhaps most searing were the aerial images of the viaduct collapse along Interstate 880 in Oakland. In an instant, dozens of motorists were crushed.

The Loma Prieta earthquake registered a powerful 6.9 on the Richter scale. The catastrophe, along with the deadly Northridge Earthquake of 1994, also shook up the state’s political establishment.

In the decades that followed, untold billions of dollars have been spent to fortify buildings, bridges, schools and other structures across the state.

Today, experts say, California is the most earthquake-ready state.

However, that doesn’t mean the preparation is adequate, they warn. A patchwork of retrofitting rules means thousands of older buildings have not been strengthened.

And even the soundest buildings may prove no match for a monster quake.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

The California Today columnist, Mike McPhate, is a third-generation Californian — born outside Sacramento and raised in San Juan Capistrano. He lives in Davis. Follow him on Twitter.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and attended U.C. Berkeley.

From the sophisticated Dadaism of “Atlanta” to the solemn mind games of “Westworld,” the television season just past featured shows that were good for us. Heading into 2017, the winter-spring season offers a batch of shows that promise to be good fun, from the con-man dramedy “Sneaky Pete” to the new adventures of Archie and the gang in “Riverdale” to the continued adventures of Diane Lockhart in “The Good Fight.” (Though seriousness isn’t lacking — “The Americans” returns, and some viewers may find the bleak future of “The Handmaid’s Tale” a little too close to home.) Here’s a look at 15 shows worth keeping an eye out for.

SNEAKY PETE (Amazon, Jan. 13) The most promising Amazon pilot of the last few years finally comes to fruition, a year and a half after the entertaining first episode was posted. Bryan Cranston and Graham Yost (“Justified”) are behind this series about a con man (Giovanni Ribisi) who is released from prison and stumbles into an opportunity: pretending to be his former cellmate, whose family is in the bail-bond business. (David Shore, creator of “House M.D.,” wrote the pilot but was replaced as showrunner by Mr. Yost.) The cast includes Margo Martindale, Peter Gerety and Marin Ireland, and the storytelling is light but soulful.

A SERIES OF UNFORTUNATE EVENTS (Netflix, Jan. 13) This adaptation of Daniel Handler’s “Lemony Snicket” books, written by Mr. Handler and executive produced by him and Barry Sonnenfeld, has a Wes Anderson look and feel. Patrick Warburton narrates as Lemony Snicket, and Neil Patrick Harris, in heavy prosthetic makeup, plays Count Olaf, the malevolent guardian of the Baudelaire children.

HOMELAND (Showtime, Jan. 15) The setting, for the first time, is New York, where Carrie Mathison lives with her now chatty daughter and defends Muslim Americans accused of terrorism. Saul and Dar brief a liberal female president-elect (oops) and scramble to take care of spy business before the inauguration. But in the early going, at least, it’s really all about Carrie and Quinn. If you’re a Quarrie believer, prepare yourself for Week 2.

RIVERDALE (CW, Jan. 26) Betty’s on Adderall, Archie’s having sex with a teacher, and Josie and the Pussycats are rehearsing down the hall. Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa and Greg Berlanti’s adaptation of the Archie Comics characters adds a dash of “Twin Peaks” small-town weirdness to a main course of “Gossip Girl” teenage mystery-melodrama, complete with G.G.-style narration by Jughead. (Madchen Amick, who was in “Twin Peaks” and “Gossip Girl,” plays Betty’s mother.)

THE QUAD (BET, Jan. 31) Your desire for a glossy, sprawling melodrama with a serious edge could be satisfied by this new series set at a fictional historically black college in Georgia. Anika Noni Rose plays the embattled new president and Ruben Santiago-Hudson the leader of the school’s famous marching band, which eats up a disproportionate chunk of the academic budget.

SANTA CLARITA DIET (Netflix, Feb. 3) Victor Fresco, creator of “Better Off Ted” and “Andy Richter Controls the Universe,” gets to take his brand of surrealism-lite even further in this sometimes hard-to-watch Netflix comedy that leavens sitcom formulas with copious gore. Drew Barrymore stars as a sitcom mom whose sudden zombification draws her family together and noticeably improves her sex life; Timothy Olyphant plays her beta-male husband.

LEGION (FX, Feb. 8) The writer and producer Noah Hawley (“Fargo” on FX) lets his inner Terry Gilliam off the leash in this series featuring a Marvel Comics mutant whose power is to absorb others’ powers. The early episodes are frenetic and hard to follow, but there’s promise in the casting: Dan Stevens (“Downton Abbey”), a more subtle and interesting actor than we usually get in superhero roles.

PLANET EARTH II (BBC America, Feb. 18) A decade after the original “Planet Earth,” David Attenborough and the BBC Natural History Unit are back with another seven hours of gorgeous nature porn, shot over the course of three years in 40 countries.

BIG LITTLE LIES (HBO, Feb. 19). This high-profile HBO drama looks a lot lighter than recent offerings like “The Night Of,” “Westworld” or even “The Young Pope.” Based on a novel by Liane Moriarty, it’s about the marital and criminal misadventures of women whose children attend the same school, and the trailer promises beaches and heavy-breathing sex. The real story here, though, is pedigree: The mini-series was created by the Gandalf of TV writers, David E. Kelley; directed by Jean-Marc Vallée (“Dallas Buyers Club”); and boasts a criticism-negating cast that includes Reese Witherspoon, Nicole Kidman, Shailene Woodley, Alexander Skarsgard and Laura Dern.

THE GOOD FIGHT (CBS All Access, Feb. 19) This much anticipated spinoff of the long-running legal drama “The Good Wife” — in which Christine Baranski reprises her role as the regal Diane Lockhart — makes its premiere on CBS’s fledgling streaming service.

THE AMERICANS (FX, March) Television’s best hourlong show returns, and we trust that the plot strands introduced in the fifth-season premiere will cohere into gripping and subtle drama. The Soviet embeds Elizabeth and Philip have a new target, their daughter Paige keeps maturing into a deadly problem, the F.B.I. agent Stan Beeman remains wonderfully obtuse, and before the first hour is over, someone we like dies. Spy business as usual.

NATIONAL TREASURE (Hulu, March 1) This BBC mini-series — based on the police investigation that resulted, most notably, in the posthumous sex-abuse revelations about the television and radio personality Jimmy Savile — has a great central duo: Robbie Coltrane (“Cracker,” the Harry Potter movies) plays a revered British comedian accused of pedophilia, and Julie Walters (“Educating Rita,” “Billy Elliot”) plays his wife.

TRIAL & ERROR (NBC, March 7) There’s no reason to think that this series, about a young New York lawyer who travels to the South to defend a wacky poetry professor accused of murder, won’t be an entirely conventional network sitcom. But the professor is played by John Lithgow, 16 years out from “3rd Rock From the Sun,” so it might be worth a look.

HARLOTS (Hulu, March 29) Among the season’s British costume dramas, this one — a satirical dramedy starring Samantha Morton and Lesley Manville as dueling brothel owners in 18th-century London — is my pick over “Victoria” and “Taboo.”

THE HANDMAID’S TALE (Hulu, April 26) Elisabeth Moss (“Mad Men”) plays a handmaid, or sex slave and childbearer, in this adaptation of Margaret Atwood’s novel about a near-future America (renamed Gilead) ruled by religious extremists. The pilot gives promise that the series will emphasize science fiction over philosophy, which wouldn’t be a bad thing.

In the pantheon of Marvel Comics, Daredevil might not be the first superhero you’d turn to in a bind.

He doesn’t have the high-tech arsenal of Iron Man or the godlike might of Thor. His few attempts to transcend comic books include an uninspiring appearance in a 1989 “Incredible Hulk” TV-movie and the starring role in a misbegotten 2003 film starring Ben Affleck.

But this neglected champion — New York lawyer by day; vigilante and martial artist by night — has become vitally important to Marvel’s latest ambitions to take its characters from page to screen.

On Friday, Netflix will release all 13 episodes of the first season of “Daredevil,” starring Charlie Cox (“Boardwalk Empire”) as Matt Murdock, the victim of a childhood accident that blinded him but gave him extrasensory powers.

In the following months and years, Netflix will add three more shows based on the Marvel characters Jessica Jones, Luke Cage and Iron Fist. All are street-level crime fighters like Daredevil who operate in Hell’s Kitchen, the rough-and-tumble Midtown Manhattan district that is home to immigrants, ruffians and recent college graduates.

Then, a mini-series, “The Defenders,” will unite these characters into a superteam.

It is a strategy that Marvel and Netflix hope will duplicate the success of “The Avengers,” the blockbuster franchise that combined the characters (and box-office prosperity) of movies featuring Iron Man, Thor and Captain America — although success here will not be as easily ascertained, because Netflix never releases its viewership numbers.

A Hulk-sized smash is hardly guaranteed: The characters in “The Defenders” are not nearly as familiar as those presented by Marvel in its films. And each television series, containing many more hours of story than a movie, must stand on its own for the whole enterprise to work.

“It was a giant gamble, because if any one of those should happen to go awry, you have to still remain committed,” said Jeph Loeb, Marvel’s head of television and an executive producer of “Daredevil.”

After “The Avengers” was released in 2012, Marvel surveyed its roster of costumed characters, looking for potential television projects. In particular, Daredevil and his New York allies seemed well equipped for smaller-scale conflicts. As Mr. Loeb put it, “If the Avengers are here to save the universe, these heroes are here to save the neighborhood.”

There was nothing small, however, about the size of Marvel’s pitch: It wanted an upfront order of all five series, without pilot episodes. That approach seemed to rule out broadcast networks like ABC, which, like Marvel, is owned by Walt Disney, and which carries other Marvel series, like the espionage adventure “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” (After a widely watched debut in the fall of 2013, “S.H.I.E.L.D.” has cooled off in its second season, drawing about 4 million to 5 million live viewers an episode.)

Netflix, the streaming video service, had started its political thriller “House of Cards” with a two-season guarantee, and was willing to make an even bigger commitment to the “Defenders” project.

Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, said of striking the deal with Marvel, “We were taking what I thought was a pretty measured bet on someone with a great track record of serving a very discriminating fan base.”

Mr. Sarandos said that he was drawn to the characters Marvel was offering because “these were all nonconventional heroes — really grounded, not capes and codpieces.”

“Daredevil,” adapted from the comics series Marvel introduced in 1964, takes its inspiration primarily from the character’s post-1980s publication history, when writers and illustrators like Frank Miller, Brian Michael Bendis and Alex Maleev helped define him as a hard-boiled hero in a world overwhelmed by corruption and crime.

The “Daredevil” show runner, Steven S. DeKnight, explained the protagonist’s central conflict: “Will he be a young man who will grow up to solve the world’s problems as a lawyer, or to solve them with his fists?”

Mr. DeKnight, who previously created the Starz action series “Spartacus,” joined “Daredevil” a few months before filming began, when its original show runner, Drew Goddard, left the project. (Mr. DeKnight, who worked with Mr. Goddard on shows including “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” and “Angel,” said the parting was amicable.)

Although his initiation into the series was somewhat rapid, Mr. DeKnight said the Netflix model allowed “Daredevil” to spend an entire season gradually unpacking the origins of its characters.

“When you’re working on a network show, especially a pilot, the notes you get are, basically, ‘Cram the entire first season into that first episode, so everybody knows what they’re going to get,’ ” he said.

On Netflix, Mr. DeKnight said: “It really is the exact opposite. It’s more, ‘Slow things down, let it breathe, explore it.’ ”

The Netflix model also means that subsequent episodes don’t have to spend time recapitulating what happened in previous installments. “We had a brief discussion about it,” he said, “and decided: ‘Eh, why does that matter? People are going to binge-watch this.’ ”

Mr. DeKnight said that the first season of “Daredevil” was as much a chronicle of Matt Murdock’s first adventures as a story about Wilson Fisk (played by Vincent D’Onofrio), a fearsome crime boss better known to readers of the comics as the Kingpin. Other prominent characters from the Daredevil comics, like the ninja assassin Elektra or the mercenary Bullseye, could appear “sometime in the far-flung future — I’m not saying it’s Season 2, or 3 or 4 or even 5,” he said.

For the moment, Netflix is being stealthy about how many seasons it will give to “Daredevil” and its other Marvel shows, and when exactly they will unite in “The Defenders.” (Marvel is also being coy about whether characters from these new TV shows will appear in its next crop of movies, although Mr. Loeb said these worlds “do intersect in very specific ways.”)

“We’re definitely going to roll out each of the characters one at a time, with their own series,” Mr. Sarandos said. “Then you can determine which of those series will go to multiple seasons, and then the coming-together season would be after all the characters are rolled out.”

He added, “It’s complicated but doable.”

Mr. Cox said he was committed to his character for a good long while.

“I think I’ll be playing Daredevil well into my 90s, if they’ll have me,” he said. “I couldn’t think of anything I’d rather be doing. Maybe speak to me again when I’m 70 and see if I feel that way.”

Superheroes With History

Daredevil is just the first of four characters who will each have a series on Netflix before assembling in a fifth show. The other three names are not as well known. Here are their stories:

JESSICA JONES This superstrong, super-resilient private eye gained her uncanny abilities from a childhood car accident that exposed her to dangerous chemicals. She had her debut in the 2001 comic book Alias (no relation to the ABC television series of the same name with Jennifer Garner), which established her as a detective, although she has also been a costumed character called Jewel, a newspaper reporter and a member of the Avengers. In Netflix’s “A.K.A. Jessica Jones,” she will be played by Krysten Ritter, whose own superpower is overcoming the cruel cancellation of her sitcom “Don’t Trust the B—- in Apartment 23.”

LUKE CAGE The star of the 1970s comic series “Luke Cage, Hero for Hire” can trace his origins partly to a cell-regeneration experiment gone wrong, and partly to an era of hit blaxploitation films like “Shaft” and “Superfly,” upon which Marvel was trying to capitalize. A Harlem-born gang member and former prison inmate (later acquitted of the drug charges for which he was framed), Cage was made to voice his share of stereotypical dialogue and the catchphrase “Sweet Christmas” in his earliest adventures. He’s now a member of the Avengers and a mainstay of the Marvel universe. He will be played by Mike Colter (Lemond Bishop on “The Good Wife”).

IRON FIST An ill-fated expedition seeking the mythical city of K’un-L’un cost the life of his father, but it delivered young Danny Rand to the care of the master martial artist Lei-Kung the Thunderer, who set him on the path to becoming the masked hero Iron Fist. That all probably made more sense in 1974, when the character was introduced in the comics series Marvel Premiere amid a craze for martial arts-themed movies (“Enter the Dragon”) and TV shows (“Kung Fu”). He was paired with Luke Cage in the comic series Power Man and Iron Fist, which ended in 1986 with Rand’s apparent death. But Rand bounced back and even filled in for Daredevil for a time in the comics. No casting for the Netflix show has been announced.

THE DEFENDERS Contrary to the polished sheen and likability of the Avengers, this other squad of Marvel adventurers (which made its first appearance in the 1971 series Marvel Feature) was designed to accommodate outcasts that no sensible superheroes would want on their teams: the brooding and dangerous Hulk; the sulky Sub-Mariner; the incomprehensible Dr. Strange, master of the mystic arts. The lineup of the Defenders has changed many times. Its pariah status has also been reinforced by the fact that Defenders comics have been canceled at least four times since 1986.

Al Brodax, a television producer who delivered an enduring psychedelic classic when he turned the Beatles song “Yellow Submarine” into an animated film in 1968, died on Nov. 24 in Danbury, Conn. He was 90.

The death was confirmed by his daughter, Jessica Harris.

In the 1960s, Mr. Brodax (pronounced BROH-dax) ran the motion picture and television division of King Features Syndicate, where he produced hundreds of “Popeye” cartoons for television.

Quick to see the cartoon potential of the Beatles, he sold their manager, Brian Epstein, on the idea of an animated series. “The Beatles” ran on Saturday mornings on ABC from 1965 to 1969 (in reruns for the last two years), attracting huge audiences. When “Yellow Submarine” climbed the charts in 1966, Mr. Brodax sensed that lightning might strike twice.

He approached Mr. Epstein again, this time with some trepidation; the Beatles did not like “The Beatles.”

But there was an opening. The group owed United Artists one more film after “A Hard Day’s Night” and “Help!,” but had lost interest in acting. An animated film, Mr. Brodax argued, would require virtually no participation by the Beatles and satisfy the conditions of their contract.

“All they had to do was sign a piece of paper,” he told the website 21st Century Radio in 1994. “I’d do the work.”

A deal was struck. Mr. Brodax put together a team of writers and animators who, despite constant friction and turmoil and a slender budget of $1 million, created a small miracle: a Popsicle-colored fantasia devoted to peace, love and the thrilling pulse of the Beatles’ music.

Songs from the albums “Rubber Soul,” “Revolver” and “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band,” as well as four new songs, provided much of the soundtrack. The dialogue was spoken by actors from Liverpool.

The film, which The Boston Globe in 1987 called “a big post-Summer-of-Love rainbow head trip,” appealed to adults and children alike. Directed by George Dunning with a swirling, pulsating psychedelic visual style created by the Czech-born illustrator Heinz Edelmann, it sent the four Beatles on a submarine voyage to idyllic Pepperland while being threatened by the music-hating, color-draining Blue Meanies.

Apple Bonkers, Snapping Turks and the Dreadful Flying Glove menaced the group, but, disguised as Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band, the Beatles vanquished the enemy with their music. Once the Beatles saw the final version, they warmed to it and filmed a brief live-action coda.

The film critic Roger Ebert, writing about a restored version released in 1999, called it “a music-based animated film for the ages,” with “a freedom of color and invention that never tires.”

Albert Philip Brodax was born on Feb. 14, 1926, in Manhattan. His father, Herman, was a coat manufacturer. His mother, the former Lillian Joss, was a homemaker.

He grew up in Washington Heights and, after the family moved to Brooklyn, attended Midwood High School.

He enlisted in the Army in 1943 and served as a medic. He was wounded during the Battle of the Bulge, earning a Purple Heart, a Bronze Star and a Combat Medical Badge.

After returning to the United States, he studied English literature at the University of Wisconsin. He received a bachelor’s degree in 1948.

He found work in the mailroom of the William Morris Agency in New York and rose to become a television writer and producer, assigned to “Your Show of Shows” and “Omnibus.” He also helped produce a Broadway adaptation of Sherwood Anderson’s book “Winesburg, Ohio” in 1958.

In 1951, he married Joan Greenberg, who survives him. In addition to her and his daughter, he is survived by his sons, Daniel and Douglas; a sister, Myrna Kurtz; and six grandchildren.

Mr. Brodax was hired by King Features Syndicate in 1960 to run its new motion picture and television division. After producing 220 “Popeye” cartoons, he collaborated with Bob Kane, the creator of “Batman,” on the animated spy spoof “Cool McCool” and produced television versions of the comic strips “Krazy Kat,” “Beetle Bailey,” “Snuffy Smith” and “Barney Google.”

“Yellow Submarine” was fraught with difficulties. Mr. Epstein, notoriously difficult to work with in his later years, rejected every script that Mr. Brodax presented to him, including one by the novelist Joseph Heller, objecting to the colored binders they came in.

Mr. Brodax commissioned a young playwright, Lee Minoff, to come up with a new script, which underwent radical revisions but included some of the basic elements of the final product. The script doctors called in for revisions included Erich Segal, who later wrote “Love Story,” and the Liverpool writer and musician Roger McGough, who added the absurdist puns sprinkled throughout the film.

The members of the visual team, for their part, took creative license, adding their own plot elements and more or less running amok. Mr. Brodax, to his credit, went with the flow.

“Al was a real innocent who didn’t know how he got what he got,” Peter Sander, one of the animators, told The Toronto Star in 1987. “But he got it.”

“Yellow Submarine” won an award from the New York Critics Circle for achievement in full-length animation.

Mr. Brodax went on to produce a short-lived live-action television series based on the comic strip “Blondie” before leaving King Features for ABC. There he produced the Sunday-morning children’s shows “Make a Wish” and “Animals, Animals, Animals.”

In the 1980s, he worked as a consultant for Marvel Comics and Computer Graphics Laboratories.

His book “Up Periscope Yellow: The Making of the Beatles Yellow Submarine” was published in 2004.

‘OLD AGE: A BEGINNER’S GUIDE’ By Michael Kinsley, Tim Duggan Books, $18; penguinrandomhouse.com

Michael Kinsley owns what might be the most envied journalistic voice of his generation — skeptical, friendly, possessed of an almost Martian intelligence — and in this superb book he turns his sights to aging.

DWIGHT GARNER

‘SEINFELDIA: HOW A SHOW ABOUT NOTHING CHANGED EVERYTHING’ By Jennifer Keishin Armstrong, Simon & Schuster, $26; simonandschuster.com

The television show “Seinfeld,” which ran from 1989 to 1998, was genuinely funny, dry as good vermouth, eminently quotable and — yada, yada, yada — here is a good book about it.

DWIGHT GARNER

‘THE GENE: AN INTIMATE HISTORY’ By Siddhartha Mukherjee, Scribner, $32; simonandschuster.com

After Siddhartha Mukherjee wrote “The Emperor of All Maladies: A Biography of Cancer,” no one was quite sure, including the author himself, whether he had another book in him — at least not a work with such an impressive wingspan. It turns out he did, though, in the story of the gene, which starts with Gregor Mendel’s experiments with peas and concludes with the sci-fi prospect of customizing our own children. The book can be chewy, dense (it’s better paired with a syrah than a Chablis) but satisfies for this same reason.

JENNIFER SENIOR

‘THE VANISHING VELÁZQUEZ: A 19TH-CENTURY BOOKSELLER’S OBSESSION WITH A LOST MASTERPIECE’ By Laura Cumming, Scribner, $28; simonandschuster.com

“We say that works of art can change our lives,” Laura Cumming writes in “The Vanishing Velázquez.” In the case of John Snare, this cliché became true in the most literal, consequential sense: A painting he purchased in 1845 made him famous, then broke, then itinerant, then utterly alone — all because he was convinced it was painted by Velázquez, rather than van Dyck. Part history, part mystery, part critical appreciation, this demented love story consumes the reader just as the painting did Mr. Snare. Dickens himself couldn’t have given him a better name.

JENNIFER SENIOR

‘WHITE SANDS: EXPERIENCES FROM THE OUTSIDE WORLD’ By Geoff Dyer, Pantheon, $25; penguinrandomhouse.com

Travel, like marriage, is something we expect more of than we can ever realistically hope to get in return; yet still we persist, fools that we are, and no one knows this better than Geoff Dyer, the neurotic Siddhartha who’s spent a lifetime in pursuit of the numinous in faraway places, usually with mixed and amusing results. “White Sands,” his latest collection of essays, contains his trademark blend of wit, sharpness and melancholy.

JENNIFER SENIOR

‘SWEETBITTER’ By Stephanie Danler, Knopf, $25; knopfdoubleday.com

This novel about the New York City restaurant world (the author worked at Union Square Cafe) has the onrushing vibe of a culinary “Bright Lights, Big City.” It’s well observed and darker than many readers will expect.

DWIGHT GARNER

‘THE ADVENTURIST’ By J. Bradford Hipps, St. Martin’s Press, $25.99; us.macmillan.com

This bright and big-souled book, set in a large Southern city, may put some readers in mind of Walker Percy’s classic novel “The Moviegoer.” It’s that relative rarity, a business novel that’s interested in what people get out of their work lives.

DWIGHT GARNER

‘SCARY OLD SEX’ By Arlene Heyman, Bloomsbury USA, $26; bloomsbury.com

Rueful and funny and observant short stories about late-flowering lust. The author is a psychiatrist in New York City, and she nails her characters and their longings. Viagra, stretch marks, over-the-counter lubricants, strange moles: oh, my.

DWIGHT GARNER

‘THE PORTABLE VEBLEN’ By Elizabeth McKenzie, Penguin Press, $26; penguinrandomhouse.com

Some novelists can’t help it: Their eyes take in the world at a 30-degree angle; their ears pick up frequencies their fellow humans cannot hear. Elizabeth McKenzie, luckily for us, is one such writer, and her third novel makes a screwball comedy of truly unlikely stuff (including, but not limited to: consumerism, pragmatism, parental narcissism, premarital jitters, mental illness, Big Pharma). The result is a work of festive, life-affirming originality. It also happens to star a squirrel. Yeah, yeah, I know. But it works. JENNIFER SENIOR

‘GRACE’ By Natashia Deón, Counterpoint $25; counterpointpress.com

If ever a novel cried out to be a film, this debut by Natashia Deón is it. Naomi, a runaway slave shot dead just after giving birth, tells her story from beyond the grave, and it loops and swirls as gorgeously as a kite’s tail. We travel with her back and forth in time, across and back through the plantations of the South; an intense maternal love powers her forward, and an intense sense of identification keeps us with her every step of the way. JENNIFER SENIOR

‘THE COMPLETE PEANUTS: 1999 TO 2000 AND COMICS AND STORIES’ By Charles M. Schulz, Fantagraphics, $49.99; fantagraphics.com

This two-volume gift box caps Fantagraphics’s epic project of reprinting all of Charles M. Schulz’s “Peanuts” strips. The “1999 to 2000” volume collects Schulz’s last work, and even here, 50 years after “Peanuts” was born, his line is sure and lyrical, his voice insightful and gentle. Snoopy still lusts after Linus’s blanket, Peppermint Patty is school-clueless, Charlie Brown sighs and frowns. “Comics and Stories” is a miscellany of rare “Peanuts” art, including storybooks and advertising. Schulz completed a staggering 17,897 daily and Sunday strips. My wish? That there were 17,897 more … sigh.

DANA JENNINGS

‘THE LOST WORK OF WILL EISNER’ Edited by Andrew Carl, Josh O’Neill and Chris Stevens, Locust Moon Press, $24.99; locustmoon.storenvy.com

Will Eisner, with Jack Kirby, established the visual vocabulary of action comic books. But what the reader gets here is Eisner, best known for the Spirit, honing his design ABC’s. These mid-1930s Eisner strips, “Uncle Otto” and “Harry Karry,” were unearthed from a trove of vintage printing plates and represent his earliest known cartooning. “Uncle Otto” is a pantomime strip in the tradition of “The Little King” by Otto Soglow, while “Harry Karry” is an adventure comic. Together, they’re a fascinating glimpse at the beginning of a pro’s career.

DANA JENNINGS

‘CHEAP NOVELTIES: THE PLEASURES OF URBAN DECAY’ By Ben Katchor, Drawn & Quarterly, $22.95; drawnandquarterly.com

In his pining for a long-vanished New York, Ben Katchor is the Joseph Mitchell — that irreplaceable New Yorker scribe — of the graphic novel. With “Cheap Novelties” — in a beautifully produced 25th-anniversary edition — we again follow Julius Knipl, real estate photographer, as he stalks the city seeking the homely, the daily, the forgotten: cheap flophouses, human beasts of burden, weights to hold down towers of newspapers. Mr. Katchor’s distinctive line is wistful, his voice quiet, subtle — all the better to make the reader lean closer, to stop and stare as the past recedes.

DANA JENNINGS

‘THE VISION, VOL. 1’ By Tom King and Gabriel Hernandez Walta, Marvel, $17.99; Amazon.com

It is rare to know that a comic book masterpiece is unfolding before your eyes, but that is what “The Vision” has delivered since it began last November. The creative team has mined the Vision’s past and moved him forward with a suburban setting and a new family, pet dog included. The story is exquisitely melancholic and taut. It evokes the films “American Beauty” and “Ordinary People,” but with even more self-destruction. GEORGE GENE GUSTINES

‘KAIJUMAX: SEASON 1’ By Zander Cannon, Oni Press, $9.99; Onipress.com

Godzilla doing time in HBO’s “Oz” is catchy shorthand, but it does not fully capture this comic. While the initial hook is Kaiju (Japanese for strange beasts) in prison, the story includes the guards and life on the outside. (It’s hard out there for ex-con monsters.) The cartoony art is the ultimate sucker punch: Some of the creatures are cute and start to tug at your sympathies — despite their sometimes reprehensible actions.

GEORGE GENE GUSTINES