Yes, Scarlett Johansson wakes up with superpowers and takes no prisoners, but the season isn’t totally about would-be action blockbusters. Philip Seymour Hoffman gifts us with two posthumous performances, as a blue-collar American loser and as a powerful German spy. Documentaries explore a dizzying range of topics, including legal marijuana, the war in Afghanistan, breast-feeding and the Koch brothers. And climate change rears its plot-driving head, ready to replace midcentury nuclear testing as the villain in sci-fi and futurist fantasies.

While it’s raining sequels — about Spider-Man, Transformers, Expendables, talking turtles, talking apes and animated dragons — at least two directors are brave enough to take on material from Broadway: Clint Eastwood and Roman Polanski. Road movies are going in all directions. Filmmakers reveal their fascination with evil — its nature, our moral duty to fight it and its embodiment in a witch with perfect cheekbones (Angelina Jolie). And Woody Allen goes back to France. It’s going to be an eventful few months.

﻿All dates are subject to change.

May

ALREADY OPENED

ALTERED STATES OF PLAINE Emanuel Plaine has an odd problem in this science-fiction-tinged psychological drama. Every time he falls asleep, he wakes up in a different part of the world, often naked — in the desert, in Arctic snows, on the New York subway. Government agents are after him, but he just wants to be cured. George Gallagher stars. Nick Gaglia directed.

THE AMAZING SPIDER-MAN 2 Corporations may not be people, but Peter Parker, a.k.a. Spider-Man, is beginning to think they can be villains. Why does everything bad lead back to Oscorp? Andrew Garfield returns as the web-swinging superhero, along with Emma Stone as his girlfriend and Dane DeHaan as his old friend (or so it seems) Harry. Jamie Foxx looks very scary as Electro, who lights up Times Square in excessive ways. It’s 3-D, it’s Imax, and it’s directed by Marc Webb, who did the first “Amazing Spider-Man.”

APOCALYPSE: A BILL CALLAHAN TOUR FILM Performances and glimpses of life backstage during a 2011 tour by Mr. Callahan, the singer, songwriter and guitarist who used to perform under the band name Smog. Hanly Banks directed this documentary.

BAD JOHNSON In this comedy from Huck Botko, a shameless womanizer (Cam Gigandet) wakes up one day and finds his favorite part of his genitalia missing. It has turned into a human being, it causes nothing but trouble, and it wants its own iPhone. Nick Thune plays the penis.

BELLE She was the illegitimate mixed-race daughter of a Royal Navy admiral. Raised by the indubitably white Lord Mansfield (Tom Wilkinson) and his wife (Emily Watson), who come to adore her but still won’t let her eat dinner with the family, she grows up in 18th-century Merchant Ivory-style splendor. Belle (Gugu Mbatha-Raw) is courted by a white vicar’s son (James Norton), but her real contribution is that Lord Mansfield went on to lead the fight to make slavery illegal in England. Directed by Amma Asante.

BENEATH THE HARVEST SKY We’ve gotta get out of this place. Two teenage boys who have grown up as friends in a small Maine town on the Canadian border decide to buy a car together and escape. Except one of the guys works one last potato harvest, and the other goes into drug smuggling. Starring Emory Cohen and Callan McAuliffe. Directed by Aron Gaudet and Gita Pullapilly.

BLOOD GLACIER So you think it’s going to be bad when the ice caps melt and sea levels rise? This Austrian horror movie set high in the Alps has news for us: Melting ice may also unleash a flow of a strange red liquid, one that mutates the local wildlife into killing monsters. Gerhard Liebmann stars as the head scientist facing these scary creatures. Marvin Kren directed.

DECODING ANNIE PARKER Samantha Morton plays a woman with breast cancer who has already lost her mother and her sister to the disease. Helen Hunt is a geneticist who is convinced of a connection between cancer and DNA, although the medical establishment of the time disagrees (she began her work in the 1970s). Inspired by a true story that concludes with the discovery of the “breast cancer gene” BRCA1. With Aaron Paul, Rashida Jones and Maggie Grace. Steven Bernstein directed.

DOCUMENTED Jose Antonio Vargas’s parents sent him to the United States when he was 12. It was years before he knew he was in the country illegally. In a 2011 article in The New York Times Magazine, Mr. Vargas, who had managed to go to college and become a journalist, confessed. This documentary, which he directed with Ann Raffaela Lupo, shows what happened next.

FOR A WOMAN A Frenchwoman whose mother is dying tries to uncover the hidden past of her parents, who met in the Nazi death camps, and a mysterious stranger they took in after the end of World War II. Is he an uncle? From the Lyon-born director, writer and actress Diane Kurys (“Entre Nous”). Sylvie Testud, Mélanie Thierry and Benoît Magimel star.

FRIENDED TO DEATH An indie comedy about Facebook. A Los Angeles parking cop (Ryan Hansen) is feeling down after losing his job and his best friend, so he fakes his death on social media. Encouraged by 22 “likes,” he decides to stage a funeral, too. Written and directed by Sarah Smick.

IDA A young woman in 1962 Poland, all prepared to become a nun, discovers she’s Jewish. This drama, which won a special prize at the Toronto International Film Festival last September, is the first film shot by the director Pawel Pawlikowski (“Last Resort”) in his home country.

JOBRIATH A.D. Kieran Turner’s documentary about the 1970s glam rocker Jobriath, said to be the first openly gay singer to sign with a major label. He died of complications from AIDS in 1983.

MORE THAN THE RAINBOW For everyone who believes that every day in New York ought to be lived to a jazz score, this New York documentary has one, mostly by Thelonious Monk. It’s the story of Matt Weber, a taxi driver who began photographing the city’s street life three decades ago. His method: “Looking and looking and pouncing. There always is a moment,” he says. Directed by Dan Wechsler.

NOW: IN THE WINGS ON A WORLD STAGE If you missed Kevin Spacey’s “Richard III” when he brought it to the Brooklyn Academy of Music two years ago, you can now at least see excerpts of his performance in this documentary, directed by Jeremy Whelehan. The subject is a 10-month international tour of the production, directed by Sam Mendes.

PALABRAS MÁGICAS (PARA ROMPER UN ENCANTAMIENTO A documentary, directed by Mercedes Moncada Rodríguez, about the Nicaraguan civil war. The title means “Magic Words for Breaking a Spell.”

THE PROTECTOR 2 An extreme-fight sequel, directed by Prachya Pinkaew. Tony Jaa stars as a man on the run, accused of a murder he didn’t commit. RZA plays a crime lord who wants him for his underground martial-arts ring. An abducted pet elephant is also involved.

RUMSTICK ROAD  A re-creation of Spalding Gray’s Wooster Group stage show about his mother’s life and suicide. Elizabeth LeCompte and Ken Kobland directed.

 SPEAK THE MUSIC: ROBERT MANN AND THE MYSTERIES OF CHAMBER MUSIC A documentary about Mr. Mann, who has been a violinist with the Juilliard String Quartet for decades, and his music. Directed by Allan Miller.

UNCLAIMED  A Vietnam veteran working in Southeast Asia tries to help an American who says he has been a soldier missing in action. A documentary written and directed by Michael Jorgensen.

 WALK OF SHAME The night before her big job interview, a TV reporter (Elizabeth Banks) in Los Angeles goes out drinking with her gal pals and leaves the bar with a gorgeous guy (James Marsden). What could go wrong? Well, the next morning, she finds herself with no car, no money and no ID. Thank goodness it’s a comedy, directed by Steven Brill.

MAY 7

BREASTMILK When the very personal becomes very political. Dana Ben-Ari, a first-time filmmaker, devotes this documentary to the questions and controversies that surround breast-feeding.

 LLYN FOULKES: ONE-MAN BAND Mr. Foulkes is a late bloomer, not really catching fire until he was 50 or so. At 79, he’s still hard at work (he was at the exhibition Documenta in Kassel, Germany, in 2012) with both art and music. This documentary, directed by Tamar Halpern and Chris Quilty, honors this Los Angeles artist (“Bloody Heads,” postcard-inspired landscapes) and musician (he created an instrument he calls the Machine, sort of a xylophone-drum with scavenged car horns) who has specialized in moral indignation for many years.

 SOL LEWITT LeWitt (1928-2007) was a reclusive, Connecticut-born artist — unpretentious, an anti-celebrity — who made his name as an American Minimalist and Conceptualist, best known for his colorful wall paintings and his 3-D structures (he didn’t like the word sculpture), some made of cement blocks. He also once worked for Seventeen magazine and for the architect I. M. Pei. Chris Teerink wrote and directed this documentary.

MAY 9

CHAPMAN Justin Owensby makes his feature-film directorial debut in a low-budget indie about a young man who returns home to Colorado to deal with a long-ago tragedy that ended a childhood friendship. Jesse Johnson and Christopher Masterson star.

 CHEF A Los Angeles chef has finally had enough mistreatment, leaves his fancy restaurant job and starts a food-truck business in Miami, hoping to recapture his zest for life and food. A Jon Favreau special — directed by, written by and starring. Sofia Vergara plays his ex-wife and Dustin Hoffman his restaurant boss.

 DEVIL’S KNOT Three teenagers are accused of killing three little boys in West Memphis, Ark., as part of a satanic ritual. Reese Witherspoon stars as the mother of one of the victims, and Colin Firth plays an investigator. Directed by Atom Egoyan (“The Sweet Hereafter”).

DAMNATION Ben Knight and Travis Rummel’s argument for seeing huge dams as environmental disasters rather than engineering marvels, pulling them down and watching America’s rivers bound back to life. It won the documentary Audience Award at South by Southwest this year.

THE DOUBLE A comedy based on a Dostoyevsky novella, and why not? Or think of it as “The Nutty Professor” without the magic elixir. Jesse Eisenberg stars as a pathetic office clerk, afraid of his boss (Wallace Shawn) and his own shadow, whose life changes when a man who looks exactly like him turns up. But his doppelgänger is confident and successful, and women love him. Richard Ayoade directed.

FARMLAND Some Americans actually do still farm, as this documentary from James Moll proves. He visits six very young (in their 20s) farmers and ranchers, responsible for operations that range from beef cattle in Texas to organic crops in California.

FED UP Stephanie Soechtig’s documentary has an answer for why so many American children today are obese and are likely to have shorter life spans than their parents: a 30-year campaign by the food industry (enabled by the government, Ms. Soechtig’s film suggests) to mislead and confuse consumers, and it worked.

GOD’S POCKET Philip Seymour Hoffman, who died in February, plays a well-meaning blue-collar schlub trying to cover up the death of his stepson in what looked like but may not have been a construction accident. The film, adapted from Pete Dexter’s novel, has major “Mad Men” connections: John Slattery (a.k.a. Roger Sterling) directed. Christina Hendricks (a.k.a. Joan Holloway Harris) plays Mr. Hoffman’s wife.

 LEGENDS OF OZ: DOROTHY’S RETURN Lots of Hollywood and Broadway celebrity voices, including Bernadette Peters as the Good Witch Glinda (was there ever any question?), Jim Belushi as the Cowardly Lion, Dan Aykroyd as the Scarecrow and Martin Short as a new villain, the Jester. And Lea Michele, bless her heart, gets to play Dorothy, who is returning to Oz in this animated 3-D musical for reasons explained in a newish book by L. Frank Baum’s great-grandson.

MOMS’ NIGHT OUT A comedy with Sarah Drew, Patricia Heaton, Trace Adkins and Sean Astin about some women who just want a nice dinner and evening with fellow grown-ups, so they ask the dads to watch the kids. A lot of people end up in a police station. Directed by the brothers Andrew Erwin and Jon Erwin.

NEIGHBORS Life is idyllic for Seth Rogen’s character, his wife (Rose Byrne) and their newborn baby girl until an entire fraternity moves in next door. Zac Efron leads the charge for Delta Psi Beta. There are raucous parties, noise complaints and comic retaliation. Directed by Nicholas Stoller, who did “Forgetting Sarah Marshall.”

PALO ALTO Gia Coppola (the 27-year-old granddaughter of Francis Ford Coppola and niece of Sofia Coppola) directs a drama about teenagers. Emma Roberts plays the class virgin, who proceeds to get involved with a single dad, the high school soccer coach (James Franco). Jack Kilmer, whose parents are Val Kilmer and Joanne Whalley, makes his acting debut.

STAGE FRIGHT Some people really hate musical theater. A horror comedy from Jerome Sable, set in a summer camp for kids who want to be singing-dancing-acting Broadway stars. They’re being terrorized by a masked killer. Minnie Driver and Meat Loaf are in the cast.

STILL I STRIVE At a Cambodian orphanage, children work toward the honor of performing in a show for Princess Bopha Devi. Adam Pfleghaar and A. Todd Smith directed this documentary.

MAY 14

 AMERICAN JESUS A documentary from Spain, directed by Aram Garriga, looking at the strong and conflicting attitudes about Christianity in the United States. Talking to secularists as well as ministers, he explores the connections between faith, materialism and politics.

HORSES OF GOD From Morocco, in French and Arabic, a drama about the men involved in the suicide bombings in Casablanca in 2003. Nabil Ayouch directed.

MAY 16

AI WEIWEI: THE FAKE CASE Chinese authorities charged Ai Weiwei, the conceptual artist, with what they said at one point were economic crimes. But it may all have been about his record as an outspoken human rights advocate and critic of the government. Andreas Johnsen’s documentary follows him during his year of house arrest.

THE AMERICAN NURSE  The lives of five nurses, including a military R.N. in San Diego and a nun who runs a nursing home. A documentary written and directed by Carolyn Jones.

 CHINESE PUZZLE Cédric Klapisch completes his travels-of-Xavier trilogy, with his characters from “L’Auberge Espagnole” (2002) and “Russian Dolls” (2005), all fortyish now. Xavier (Romain Duris) leaves Paris to follow his ex-wife (Kelly Reilly) and their children to begin a new life — or at least an adventure — in New York City. Audrey Tautou and Cécile de France also return as their characters from the first two films.

COLD BLOOM A post-tsunami Japanese drama about a widow and the possibility of new love. Marika Matsumoto, Riki Miura and Takahiro Miura star. Atsushi Funahashi directed.

 CYBER-SENIORS Teenage mentors introduce people of retirement age and way beyond, some of whom wouldn’t know a laptop from a surge protector, to the digital world. The next thing you know, an 89-year-old woman is making her own cooking video and bragging about how many views it has. A documentary from Saffron Cassaday, an actress making her directorial debut.

THE DISCOVERERS Griffin Dunne makes a comeback, playing a history professor whose career has hit the community-college skids, on a car trip with his teenagers, en route to a conference. Unfortunately he loses his father (Stuart Margolin) during a Lewis and Clark re-enactment. A dysfunctional-family road movie written and directed by Justin Schwarz.

DON PEYOTE A comedy about doomsday craziness. Josh Duhamel, Anne Hathaway, Topher Grace, Dan Fogler and Jay Baruchelstar in the story of an unemployed stoner who becomes obsessed with end-of-the-world theories while his tolerant fiancée is just trying to plan their wedding. Written and directed by Mr. Fogler and Michael Canzoniero.

GODZILLA Oh, Bryan Cranston (meth king on television, L.B.J. on Broadway), if anyone can stop a giant radioactive lizard monster and make us see the folly of human scientific arrogance, you can. The last American remake of the 1954 Japanese original was a whole 16 years ago, so Gozira (his original Japanese name) is back, this time in 3-D and Imax and so large the screen can barely contain it. With David Strathairn, Ken Watanabe, Juliette Binoche and Elizabeth Olsen. Gareth Edwards directed.

HALF OF A YELLOW SUN  Chiwetel Ejiofor (of “12 Years a Slave”), Thandie Newton and Anika Noni Rose star in a drama about two English-educated Nigerian sisters whose behavior shocks their family during their country’s civil war. Biyi Bandele wrote and directed.

 HANNA RANCH This documentary focuses on Kirk Hanna, who has become known as an eco-rancher in Colorado. In addition to environmentalism, Mitch Dickman’s documentary deals with three generations of ranchers and major family quarrels.

THE IMMIGRANT Set in 1920s New York, this drama stars Marion Cotillard as a Polish immigrant, just off the boat, and on her own in the big city. She meets a real charmer (Joaquin Phoenix) who forces her to become a prostitute. Her only salvation may be the man’s cousin (Jeremy Renner), a magician. Directed by James Gray.

 MILLION DOLLAR ARM Jon Hamm, with only a half-season of “Mad Men” left, stars as a sports agent whose career is on life support. In a desperate move, he goes to India to scout cricket players who could be baseball pitchers. With Aasif Mandvi (everybody’s favorite Mumbai-born “Daily Show” correspondent), Alan Arkin, Bill Paxton and Lake Bell. It’s another way “Jerry Maguire” might have gone.

NEXT YEAR JERUSALEM Eight Connecticut nursing-home residents take the words of the Passover Seder prayer literally (although they aren’t all Jewish), fly to Israel and take a 10-day bus tour, seeing it as their final big adventure. David Gaynes directed.

A NIGHT IN OLD MEXICO Robert Duvall as a craggy Texas rancher, who has been forced to abandon his land, heading out on one last wild road trip, this time with his grandson (Jeremy Irvine), whom he has just met. Angie Cepeda plays the woman they meet across the border. From the Cuban-born Spanish director Emilio Aragón.

A PEOPLE UNCOUNTED: THE UNTOLD STORY OF THE ROMA A documentary directed by Aaron Yeger about the equally romanticized and vilified people once known only as Gypsies. Interviews with Roma artists, historians, musicians and Holocaust survivors in 11 countries.

A SHORT HISTORY OF DECAY Bryan Greenberg plays a Brooklyn hipster who comes down with a bad case of writer’s block after his girlfriend breaks up with him. Things change on a long visit to Florida, where he spends time with his parents (Linda Lavin and Harris Yulin) and is attracted to his mother’s manicurist (Kathleen Rose Perkins). Directed by Michael Maren.

WOLF CREEK 2 A crazy serial killer (John Jarratt) in the Australian Outback. A horror thriller sequel directed by Greg Mclean.

MAY 23

THE ANGRIEST MAN IN BROOKLYN Robin Williams plays the title role in this comic drama about an extremely unpleasant man with a brain aneurysm whose doctor (Mila Kunis) tells him he has 90 minutes to live. She just says it because he’s being so obnoxious, but he sets out to make rapid amends — with everyone. The supporting cast includes Peter Dinklage, James Earl Jones, Melissa Leo, Hamish Linklater and Sutton Foster. From Phil Alden Robinson, who did “Field of Dreams.”

 BLENDED Adam Sandler and Drew Barrymore’s characters meet on a — what else? — truly disastrous blind date. Then they move on. Until both, with their respective children in tow, end up on the same family-package vacation in South Africa. Directed by Frank Coraci.

 COLD IN JULY There goes Michael C. Hall (the serial killer in Showtime’s “Dexter”), doing people in again. But this time it’s self-defense — a burglar who’s invaded his Texas home. His actions make him a local hero but also bring the dead burglar’s ex-con father (Sam Shepard) to town, seeking revenge. Many things, however, are not what they seem. A detective named Jim Bob (Don Johnson) may be able to help. Directed by Jim Mickle and based on the novel by Joe R. Lansdale.

THE DANCE OF REALITY Alejandro Jodorowsky’s first film in more than two decades (“The Rainbow Thief” was in 1990) is an autobiographical story of his childhood in Chile, filmed in his hometown. Mr. Jodorowsky, 85, appears as himself, and Jeremias Herskovits plays the young Alejandro.

GORE VIDAL: THE UNITED STATES OF AMNESIA He wrote novels, essays. screenplays and stage plays. And when he died in 2012 at the age of 86, his obituary in The New York Times summed him up as a “man of letters.” In this documentary, directed by Nicholas Wrathall, Vidal’s nearest and dearest and a raft of others (including Mikhail Gorbachev and Dick Cavett) talk about him, and Vidal himself gives his last on-screen interviews, fearless to the end.

GRAND DÉPART Clearly, trente is the new dix-huit. Remember when coming-of-age stories were about teenagers?  This drama from France and the director Nicolas Mercier is about a man becoming an adult at 30. Pio Marmaï stars as Romain, who finally decides, as the health of his father (Eddy Mitchell) declines, to stand up to his brother (Jérémie Elkaïm).

THE HORNET’S NEST A documentary about elite American troops on a special mission in Afghanistan. A father-and-son team of television journalists, Mike Boettcher and Carlos Boettcher, embedded themselves with the Army’s 101st Airborne Division in an operation in Kunar Province that lasted nine days. David Salzberg and Christian Tureaud directed.

 LILA LILA An insecure young waiter happens upon a brilliant unpublished manuscript. The pretty customer he’s crushing on insists it be published, she gets her way, and it becomes a best seller. Then the real author, a disheveled older man, shows up. Didn’t we just see this with Bradley Cooper and Jeremy Irons (“The Words”)? But this time it’s a romantic comedy and in German. Directed by Alain Gsponer.

THE LOVE PUNCH Emma Thompson and Pierce Brosnan as a divorced couple whose retirement funds are stolen by a crooked businessman. In this caper, set in and around Paris, they set out to steal their money back. Written and directed by Joel Hopkins.

STAND CLEAR OF THE CLOSING DOORS In Sam Fleischner’s drama, an autistic 13-year-old boy becomes lost in the New York subway system. To complicate things, his mother is afraid to go to the authorities because she’s an illegal immigrant, and Hurricane Sandy is on its way. Jesus Sanchez-Velez plays the boy.

WORDS AND PICTURES Juliette Binoche is an art teacher who says that words are lies and pictures are truth. Clive Owen is an English teacher who disagrees. They enlist their students to settle the question, and faculty flirtation ensues. A romantic comedy drama directed by Fred Schepisi, who seemed to be on the side of art when he did “Six Degrees of Separation.”

X-MEN: DAYS OF FUTURE PAST The seventh movie about X-Men brings back Bryan Singer, who directed the first two, and introduces the older mutants (played by the likes of Patrick Stewart and Ian McKellen) to their younger selves (the likes of James McAvoy, Michael Fassbender and Jennifer Lawrence) in a time-travel plot. Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) has to go back to the 1970s to change some major historical event or it will mean the end of humanity. The news-getting addition to the cast, though, is Peter Dinklage, of “Game of Thrones,” as Bolivar Trask, a mastermind who controls giant killer robots but whom Mr. Dinklage has said he prefers not to see as a villain, just a “man of science.”

MAY 28

 GEBO AND THE SHADOW Claudia Cardinale, Jeanne Moreau and Michael Lonsdale are babies compared with their director here, the Portuguese filmmaker Manoel de Oliveira, 105. His first film was a 1931 documentary short. His latest is a drama, set in 19th-century Paris, about a poor patriarch who sacrifices himself for his son.

 THE LIFE AND CRIMES OF DORIS PAYNE A lovable real-life international jewel thief. Kirk Marcolina and Matthew Pond’sdocumentary traces Ms. Payne’s life from single African-American mom in the segregated mid-20th century to glamorous figure in Monte Carlo. She is in her 80s now.

MAY 30

AGE OF UPRISING: THE LEGEND OF MICHAEL KOHLHAAS From a classic 19th-century German novella, inspired by a 16th-century case, this revenge drama has been relocated to 16th-century France. Mads Mikkelsen stars as a horse trader who is robbed and humiliated by the local lord and, unable to find justice in the courts of the day, simply leads a bloody rebellion against him. The film won two César awards and was nominated for four more. Directed by Arnaud des Pallières.

L’ÉCHANGE A French political hostage drama. Masked Russian terrorists burst into an elementary school classroom and kidnap the son of the defense minister (Lucile Jaillant). Only an extraordinary man — an extraordinary man with killer biceps (Jacques Stival, who also wrote the screenplay) — can save the day. The film credits four directors, including Jerome Leonard.

ELENA A Brazilian documentary about running away to become an American actress. In 1989 a young South American woman moved to New York in hopes of becoming a movie star, but after a while her letters stopped and she was lost to her family, including a 7-year-old sister. Two decades later that sister (Petra Costa, the director) followed her own career dreams to New York and set out to find Elena.

 EMOTICON ;) Don’t graduate students have enough problems? In a comedy that she wrote (with Sarah Nerboso) and directed, Livia De Paolis stars as a doctoral candidate in anthropology who runs into difficulties communicating when she meets the savvy New York teenage son and daughter (Miles Chandler and Diane Guerrero) of her much older boyfriend (Michael Cristofer). She wants to learn to deal with love and intimacy in the digital age. Luckily, her faculty adviser is Carol Kane.

FILTH James McAvoy as a drug-addicted bipolar Scottish police detective desperate to win a promotion. A comic crime drama directed by Jon S. Baird and based on a novel by Irvine Welsh, who also wrote “Trainspotting.” The cast also includes Imogen Poots, Jamie Bell and Jim Broadbent.

THE GRAND SEDUCTION  How far will a group of desperate townspeople go to persuade a young big-city doctor to stay in their little fishing village and practice there? Taylor Kitsch plays the doctor; Brendan Gleeson is the local who leads the campaign to seduce him. Don McKellar directed this comedy, set in the fictional town of Tickle Head.

KORENGAL Sebastian Junger’s follow-up to his and Tim Hetherington’s Oscar-nominated “Restrepo” (2010). This documentary covers the same war (in Afghanistan) and the same men who fought there (the 2-503) but looks at the inner soldier, exploring the nature of fear, courage and guilt. Mr. Hetherington was killed in 2011, covering the civil war in Libya, but much of his camera work is here.

LUCKY THEM The music journalism scene in Seattle is the setting for this drama. Toni Collette stars as a rock reporter assigned, against her will, to learn what happened to a famous musician who disappeared 10 years ago. He also happened to be her boyfriend. With Thomas Haden Church as her traveling companion, Oliver Platt as her boss and Ryan Eggold as a street musician. Megan Griffiths directed.

MALEFICENT Really, what else is Angelina Jolie to do as she faces 39? She hasn’t starred in a live-action picture since “The Tourist” in 2010, but she is stunningly beautiful (despite an impossible headdress and giant wings) in Disney 3-D and stunningly evil as the woman who curses the infant, Aurora, who grows up to become Sleeping Beauty (Elle Fanning). And we find out why Maleficent is such a cruel witch. Robert Stromberg, an Oscar- and Emmy-winning art director, makes his directorial debut.

A MILLION WAYS TO DIE IN THE WEST Seth MacFarlane moves on from talking plush animals (“Ted”) to the tale of a cowardly sheep farmer (Mr. MacFarlane), gunfights, dangerous outlaws and beautiful women. With a wild and woolly cast including Charlize Theron, Amanda Seyfried, Neil Patrick Harris, Sarah Silverman and Liam Neeson.

NIGHT MOVES An ecoterrorism thriller directed by Kelly Reichardt. Jesse Eisenberg, Dakota Fanning and Peter Sarsgaard star as environmentalists with plans to blow up a dam. Not the summer’s only dam movie.

WE ARE THE BEST! Three misfit teenage girls form the world’s worst punk band in 1980s Stockholm in this comedy. Considered a return to romantic form for the Swedish director Lukas Moodysson, whose first big films were “Show Me Love” and “Together.” Mira Barkhammar, Mira Grosin and Liv LeMoyne star.

June

﻿JUNE 6

ALL THE LOST SOULS Emotional misery in Prague. A drug-addicted young Indian actress (Auritra Ghosh) betrays her British boyfriend (Jim High), an out-of-work actor, with a banker turned filmmaker (Jared Doreck), who is dealing with his own guilt and grief. Directed by Ahmed Faiyaz, based on his own short story and filmed in English in the Czech Republic.

ANNA A thriller about a 16-year-old girl (Taissa Farmiga, Vera’s little sister) who is either a sociopath or a horribly traumatized victim. One detective (Mark Strong) may be able to figure out which, because he has the power to enter people’s minds and memories. Directed by Jorge Dorado.

BORGMAN From the Netherlands, a domestic thriller about a strange vagrant (Jan Bijvoet) who worms his way into a wealthy family’s home and life. He says he’s a gardener, but he’s more like Rasputin. Alex van Warmerdam wrote and directed this dark, anti-upper-class examination of the nature of evil.

BURNING BLUE A romance-drama about a close-knit group of Navy pilots. A series of fatal accidents on an aircraft carrier and a secret affair drive the plot. With Trent Ford, Morgan Spector, Rob Mayes and Tammy Blanchard. Directed by D. M. W. Greer.

BURT’S BUZZ A hippie news photographer drops out, leaves the city and becomes a reclusive beekeeper. Oh, and then the head of a multimillion-dollar personal products company. That’s the story of Burt Shavitz, the founder of Burt’s Bees. Jody Shapiro, this documentary’s director, visits Mr. Shavitz in Maine to get a closer look at life off the grid.

THE CASE AGAINST 8 Proposition 8 was California’s ban on same-sex marriage. Ben Cotner and Ryan White’s documentary, which won a directing award at the Sundance Film Festival, follows the Supreme Court case that overturned the proposition and spends five years following four of the plaintiffs.

LE CHEF Haute cuisine versus molecular gastronomy in Paris. Not to be confused with Jon Favreau’s American film “Chef,” which opens the previous month. This French comedy stars Jean Reno as a star chef with a multi-Michelin-starred restaurant whose boss (the chief executive of the parent company) wants him out. To fight back, he teams up with a young aspiring chef (Michaël Youn) who so far has demonstrated lots of culinary talent but no luck.

CITIZEN KOCH The name rhymes with joke. As in David and Charles Koch, the ultraconservative billionaires who fostered the group called Americans for Prosperity. This documentary from Carl Deal and Tia Lessin follows the money behind the rise of the Tea Party and finds, to almost no one’s surprise, that it leads to the doors of very, very rich people.

 DORMANT BEAUTY A French-Italian coproduction. Entwining stories are inspired by the real-life experience of Eluano Englaro, who after a car accident remained in a vegetative state for 17 years. The cast includes Isabelle Huppert, Toni Servillo, Alba Rohrwacher, Michele Riondino, Maya Sansa and Pier Giorgio Bellocchio. Filmed in Italy and directed by Marco Bellocchio.

EDGE OF TOMORROW Too bad they didn’t just call it “All You Need Is Kill,” like the book on which it’s based. Instead, Tom Cruise and Doug Liman, the director, are stuck with a 1950s soap opera title for this science fiction thriller with a “Groundhog Day” twist. Mr. Cruise is a military officer who is sent to fight invading space aliens, has never seen combat before and is killed on his first time out. Then he relives the day again and again — and keeps getting better at fighting. Emily Blunt plays a “special forces warrior.”

 THE FAULT IN OUR STARS Midwestern teenagers in love. But their future is bleak; they met in a cancer support group. Shailene Woodley (“The Descendants,” “Divergent”) is Hazel. Ansel Elgort, a newcomer who was in the recent remake of “Carrie” (as well as Ms. Woodley’s co-star in “Divergent”), is Gus. Based on the best-selling young adult novel by John Green. Directed by Josh Boone.

OBVIOUS CHILD Gillian Robespierre has written and directed what can be fairly called an abortion comedy. After her boyfriend breaks up with her, an aspiring Brooklyn comedian (Jenny Slate) in her 20s has a one-night stand to comfort herself and finds herself pregnant. Will she or won’t she terminate? With Jake Lacy, Gaby Hoffmann, Richard Kind and Polly Draper.

PING-PONG SUMMER During his family’s summer vacation in Ocean City, Md., in 1985, a young boy (Marcello Conte) falls in love with Ping-Pong. Susan Sarandon, America’s most famous Ping-Pong fan, heads the cast. Written and directed by Michael Tully.

THE SACRAMENT The Jonestown massacre meets “The Blair Witch Project.” A couple of journalists with a shaky grip on their hand-held video camera help a friend look for his sister, only to find her in a rural cult ruled over by a nutcase (Gene Jones). The whole group is preparing for a mass suicide. With Joe Swanberg and A J Bowen. Ti West directed.

SUPERMENSCH: THE LEGEND OF SHEP GORDON He’s the guy who first threw a chicken at Alice Cooper onstage. He gave Mike Myers major trouble during the making of “Wayne’s World.” Now Mr. Myers has directed this documentary to introduce us to the most outrageous Hollywood insider we’d never heard of till now. Mr. Gordon is a talent manager, music manager and producer whose clients have included star singers (Cooper, Luther Vandross) and celebrity chefs (Emeril Lagasse). Michael Douglas, Sylvester Stallone and other Hollywood heavyweights affirm his importance.

TRUST ME Clark Gregg stars as a down-on-his-luck Hollywood agent for child actors who discovers his first acting prodigy (Saxon Sharbino) in ages. Characters played by Sam Rockwell, Amanda Peet, Allison Janney and Felicity Huffman complicate his life and this new accomplishment. Mr. Gregg also wrote and directed.

 2 AUTUMNS, 3 WINTERS A romantic comedy from France about a 33-year-old man who’s feeling a little lost when he meets a woman while jogging and decides she’s the one. Life is complicated by (a) his futile efforts to reconnect with her, (b) his best friend’s having a stroke and (c) the friend’s speech therapist’s being so pretty. Written and directed by Sébastien Betbeder. Starring Vincent Macaigne, Maud Wyler, Bastien Bouillon and Audrey Bastien.

WILLOW CREEK A believer in Bigfoot goes to the California woods with video camera. Bryce Johnson stars in this found-footage horror tale, with Alexie Gilmore as the skeptical girlfriend. Bobcat Goldthwait wrote and directed.

JUNE 11

BURNING BUSH The Polish director Agnieszka Holland (“Europa, Europa”) offers her latest, from the Czech Republic via HBO. Tatiana Pauhofova, Jaroslava Pokorna and Petr Stach star in a drama about a Prague history student who in 1969 set himself on fire to protest the Soviet occupation of Czechoslovakia. As a feature film, it won nine Czech Lions, the country’s Oscar equivalent, including best picture.

JUNE 13

ALL CHEERLEADERS DIE And they do, but not for long. Amazing, really, how many sinister supernatural powers are lurking around American high schools, just waiting to pounce. Caitlin Stasey stars as a high school girl with a grudge against the football captain; a group attack on him has unexpected consequences. A horror comedy written and directed by Lucky McKee and Chris Sivertson.

A COFFEE IN BERLIN Originally titled “Oh Boy,” this black-and-white comic drama swept the Deutscher Filmpreis (Germany’s Oscars) ceremony last year, with seven awards, including best picture and best actor. Tom Schilling stars as a recent college dropout who enthusiastically adopts the slacker lifestyle until pretty much everything goes wrong, including the appearance of a fat girl from grade school who may have revenge on her mind. Written and directed by Jan Ole Gerster. With Michael Gwisdek and Friederike Kempter.

 COHERENCE A little bit “Twilight Zone,” a little bit relationship drama. In James Ward Byrkit’s film, eight friends gather for a dinner party on the night of an astrological anomaly and things get strange. It may help to be familiar with Schrödinger’s cat or quantum decoherence.

EVERGREEN: THE ROAD TO LEGALIZATION Riley Morton’s documentary about Washington State’s 2012 vote approving recreational marijuana use looks at how it happened and what the impact has been.

HELLAWARE The New York art world is so phony, an aspiring photographer (Keith Poulson) decides in this coming-of-age comedy. Looking for more authentic subjects, he turns to a Delaware goth rap group, Young Torture Killers. Sophia Takal plays his friend with benefits. Written and directed by Michael M. Bilandic.

HELLION Aaron Paul continues his post-“Breaking Bad” career as the useless Texas father of a 13-year-old boy (Josh Wiggins) who is obsessed with dirt-bike racing and well on his way to juvenile delinquency. But they both realize they have to get their acts together after a younger son (Deke Garner) is sent away, for his own good, to live with an aunt (Juliette Lewis). Written and directed by Kat Candler.

HOW TO TRAIN YOUR DRAGON 2 The Vikings and the dragons have been friends since the first film, but now there are complications and a new villain (the voice of Djimon Hounsou) for our young hero, Hiccup (Jay Baruchel), to deal with, Lots of other celebrity voices, too, among them Cate Blanchett’s, Gerard Butler’s and Jonah Hill’s. Animated, in 3-D and directed by Dean DeBlois.

I AM I Rachael is not the first visitor to a dementia patient to be mistaken for someone else, but when her father (Kevin Tighe ) believes she is her own mother, Rachael (Jocelyn Towne, who also directed and wrote the screenplay) decides to go along with it. The deception does wonders for their communication, for a while. With Simon Helberg and Jason Ritter.

IVORY TOWER What went wrong? College is so expensive that Americans now owe $1 trillion in student loan debt, yet the schools themselves are struggling financially. In this documentary, Andrew Rossi, who directed “Page One: Inside The New York Times,” looks at the situation, the economic models and asks whether it’s all worth it.

JIMI: ALL IS BY MY SIDE A bio-drama about Jimi Hendrix in the early days (the mid-’60s, before Woodstock, before the Monterey Pop Festival, before “Are You Experienced?”). André Benjamin, a.k.a. André 3000 of OutKast, plays the title role. With Imogen Poots (as Keith Richards’s girlfriend at the time) and Andrew Buckley (as Chas Chandler of the Animals). Written and directed by John Ridley, who won an Oscar for the screenplay for “12 Years a Slave.”

LIFE’S A BREEZE Hard economic times in Ireland. In this comic drama from Lance Daly, an entire financially struggling family (Fionnula Flanagan, Pat Shortt and Kelly Thornton) band together in hopes of finding a lost fortune in Dublin.

LULLABY A family drama starring Garrett Hedlund as the son who can’t handle it when his father (Richard Jenkins) announces that he wants to be removed from life support in exactly 48 hours. Amy Adams turns up as the son’s old love interest and Jennifer Hudson plays a supportive nurse. Directed by Andrew Levitas.

MANUSCRIPTS DON’T BURN From Iran and the filmmaker Mohammad Rasoulof, who has been imprisoned in his home country because of his work, a drama about state-sponsored censorship. The subject is an Iranian author writing his memoirs, which cover his time as a political prisoner. Mr. Rasoulof has had his cast and crew’s names removed from all credits, for their own protection.

POLICEMAN From Israel, a drama about an elite antiterrorism unit. The group’s alpha male tries to deal with two complications: an accident during a rescue mission and the appearance of Israeli political extremists who act exactly like the terrorists these guys love to hate. Written and directed by Nadav Lapid. The cast includes Yiftach Klein, Yaara Pelzig and Michael Moshonov.

THE ROVER Scene: The Australian Outback (a dangerous place to be in this summer’s films). Time: The future (10 years after the collapse of civilization). Guy Pearce plays a man who is very angry after his car is stolen. Robert Pattinson plays a wounded man the gang leaves behind. David Michôd (“Animal Kingdom”) directed this revenge drama.

 THE SIGNAL Laurence Fishburne stars as a crazed genius hacker who likes to wear a hazmat suit and lures three college students to his secret lab in New Mexico. Brenton Thwaites plays the young man who gets the worst of it. A blend of sci-fi thriller and road movie, directed by William Eubank.

TEST It’s 1985 in San Francisco, and one young dancer (Scott Marlowe) actually believes (briefly) that his biggest problem is being taken seriously as an artist. This was also the era in which some people believed you could be infected with H.I.V. by sweat and a time when any conversation that began with “I got tested” was almost sure to be a major downer. Matthew Risch plays an older, wiser dancer. Chris Mason Johnson wrote and directed.

22 JUMP STREET Channing Tatum and Jonah Hill star in a sequel to their 2012 buddy-cop comedy, “21 Jump Street.” This time the partners go undercover as college students, but one bonds with the football team and the other with the art majors. Ice Cube and Nick Offerman play the same authority figures as before. Phil Lord and Christopher Miller directed.

VIOLETTE The story of the French feminist author Violette Leduc (Emmanuelle Devos) and her friend and mentor Simone de Beauvoir (Sandrine Kiberlain), beginning in Paris in the 1940s. The illegitimate daughter of a servant, Leduc (1907-72) is best known for her memoir “La Bâtarde” (1964). Martin Provost directed.

JUNE 18

VIDEO GAMES: THE MOVIE The industry, the history and thoughts about what it all means. A documentary written and directed by Jeremy Snead, with appearances by Wil Wheaton, Zach Braff and Sean Astin.

JUNE 20

FONZY No connection with the American television series “Happy Days” or with Henry Winkler, a.k.a. the Fonz. This is a French comedy, directed by Isabella Doval, about a Parisian fish deliveryman (José Garcia, Ms. Doval’s husband) who once donated sperm, a lot of sperm, using the code name Fonzy. When he learns he has 533 children, there are legal problems. If this sounds familiar, that’s because the screenplay is adapted from Ken Scott and Martin Petit’s initial script for what later became the Vince Vaughn film “Delivery Man.”

JERSEY BOYS Clint Eastwood is not the first director you might think of to take on the Tony-winning 2005 Broadway musical about the rise of Frankie Valli and the Four Seasons (their hits included “Walk Like a Man” and “Our Day Will Come”). But here he is. John Lloyd Young, who plays Valli, is straight from the original New York cast. Christopher Walken plays Gyp DeCarlo, a Hoboken Mafioso.

 THE LAST SENTENCE In the 1930s, Sweden, finding itself wedged between Hitler’s Germany and Stalin’s Soviet Union, chose silence. But there were exceptions, including Torgny Segerstedt, a Göteborg newspaper editor who made his anti-Nazi position loud and clear (and some of his countrymen very nervous). Jesper Christensen plays Segerstedt in this drama with a clear message: We have a moral duty to speak out against evil. With Pernilla August and Ulla Skoog. Directed by Jan Troell.

MISS LOVELY From India, a thriller about making really trashy movies in Mumbai in the 1980s. Two brothers (Nawazuddin Siddiqui and Anil George) find their creative partnership shaken up when they meet an ingénue (Niharika Singh) with a past. Which is usually an oxymoron. Directed by Ashim Ahluwalia.

THINK LIKE A MAN TOO Sometimes Hollywood just can’t resist turning a self-help book into a movie, and this is the second one based on Steve Harvey’s, which advises women on ways to get the upper hand in the battle of the sexes. The cast, back from the 2012 original movie, includes Kevin Hart, Gabrielle Union, Taraji P. Henson and Michael Ealy. This time the gang is in Las Vegas for a wedding. Directed by Tim Story.

 THIRD PERSON  A bevy of stars — among them Liam Neeson, Mila Kunis, James Franco, Olivia Wilde, Maria Bello and Adrien Brody — in a romantic drama set in Rome, Paris and New York, as they all should be. Written and directed by Paul Haggis (“In the Valley of Elah”).

 VENUS IN FUR Roman Polanski has grabbed David Ives’s New York stage hit about a theater director and the mysterious woman who arrives for an audition and takes charge in sexy, surprising ways. Mr. Polanski and Mr. Ives collaborated on the screenplay. Emmanuelle Seigner (Mr. Polanski’s wife) takes on the role that made Nina Arianda a Broadway star. Mathieu Almaric plays the director, who doesn’t know what hit him.

JUNE 25

THE PLEASURES OF BEING OUT OF STEP: NOTES ON THE LIFE OF NAT HENTOFF He became a columnist for DownBeat magazine in 1952. He wrote for The Village Voice for half a century. Mr. Hentoff, a Pulitzer Prize winner who will turn 89 next month, is still an important voice of jazz, alternative journalism and various libertarian causes. This documentary, directed by David L. Lewis, includes music by the likes of Duke Ellington, Charles Mingus, Miles Davis and Bob Dylan.

YVES SAINT LAURENT And now he’s fiction. Jalil Lespert directs this biography of Saint Laurent (Pierre Niney), the young, Algerian-born assistant who knocked the Parisian fashion world’s chaussettes off when he took over the house of Dior at age 21. Guillaume Gallienne plays Pierre Bergé, the designer’s business partner and true love. Saint Laurent died in 2008.

JUNE 27

LA BARE Joe Manganiello has often displayed his body as the werewolfish Alcide on HBO’s “True Blood.” He played a stripper named Big Dick Richie in “Magic Mike.” So naturally, when Mr. Manganiello wants to make his feature-film directorial debut, he chooses a male strip club in Dallas as his subject.

CODE BLACK A big-city emergency room that often feels like a war zone changes completely after the hospital moves to a fancy new building with state-of-the-art technology. The doctors kind of liked it the old way. A documentary directed by Ryan McGarry.

 I AM HAPPINESS ON EARTH From Mexico, a drama about a film director who gets real life and his films confused. One or both of these involves a great deal of nudity and sex with men. Hugo Catalán stars. Directed by Julián Hernández.

THE INTERNET’S OWN BOY: THE STORY OF AARON SWARTZ He was 14 when he helped develop the Web feed format RSS. Then he founded a company that merged with Reddit. And at 26, embroiled in a legal battle because of his belief that access to information should be free, he committed suicide. A documentary written and directed by Brian Knappenberger.

JACKPOT A crime comedy from Norway. A mild-mannered Christmas-tree-factory manager (Kyrre Hellum) wakes up one morning in a strip club, gun in hand, surrounded by dead bodies. He will need to explain this to the police. Magnus Martens directed.

 NOTHING BAD CAN HAPPEN This German drama, which earned lots of positive attention at Cannes, has been called torture porn by its detractors. Julius Feldmeier stars as a young drifter starting a new life in Hamburg with a group called the Jesus Freaks. One day he helps out a family whose car is stalled, moves in with them and finds himself the daily victim of startling cruelty (for example, rapes and mutilations), which he decides to suffer in as Christlike a manner as possible. With Sascha Alexander Gersak, Annika Kuhl and Swantje Kohlhof. Written and directed by Katrin Gebbe, and said to have been inspired by true events.

 SIDDHARTH From India, Canada and the writer and director Richie Mehta, a drama about a father’s cross-country journey searching for his son. A poor man who repairs zippers on the streets of New Delhi sends his 12-year-old to work in a distant factory, but the boy disappears and is feared kidnapped by child traffickers. With Rajesh Tailang, Tannishtha Chatterjee and Irfan Khan.

 SNOWPIERCER You think the class system is getting ugly in regular life? Just imagine it in a postapocalyptic world in which all the survivors on earth are on a big train together, going around and around the globe. Tilda Swinton is in first class and makes it arrogantly clear that the people in steerage should shut up and be invisible. The cast also includes Chris Evans, Jamie Bell, John Hurt, Ed Harris and Alison Pill. Directed by Bong Joon Ho. The year is 2031, and it all happened because of a failed global-warming experiment, which appears to have left the planet snowbound.

 THEY CAME TOGETHER  So this lovely young woman owns a charming little bookstore that will probably go out of business because of a big company run by a handsome guy. No — sorry — this time it’s a charming little candy store and a big candy corporation. Cobie Smulders and Paul Rudd star in this romantic comedy as the would-be couple who despise each other because of differing business philosophies. With Amy Poehler, Michael Shannon and Christopher Meloni. David Wain directed.

TRANSFORMERS: AGE OF EXTINCTION The director (Michael Bay), the Autobots and the Decepticons are back, but there are some new humans in the latest battle. Mark Wahlberg stars as an auto mechanic who makes a big discovery, with a supporting cast that includes Stanley Tucci, Kelsey Grammer, Sophia Myles, Bingbing Li and Nicola Peltz.

WHITEY: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA V. JAMES J. BULGER That was fast. After 16 years in hiding, the Boston crime boss known as Whitey Bulger was found and arrested in 2011, convicted of 31 charges (racketeering, extortion, connections with numerous murders) in August and sentenced in November. And now we have a documentary, directed by Joe Berlinger, whose past work includes “Paradise Lost: The Child Murders at Robin Hood Hills.”

July

JULY 2

DELIVER US FROM EVIL First, bed bugs; now, an epidemic of demonic possessions. Can New York City never catch a break? Eric Bana stars as a Bronx police officer who investigates the paranormal, and Édgar Ramirez is a priest who knows something about exorcisms. With Olivia Munn and Joel McHale. Directed by Scott Derrickson and based on the nonfiction (uh-oh) book “Beware the Night.”

 EARTH TO ECHO Three inseparable young friends are about to be separated in this sci-fi adventure directed by Dave Green (who also directed six episodes of “Zombie Roadkill”). Maybe, the boys (Teo Halm, Reese Hartwig and Astro) decide, there’s more to the destruction of their whole neighborhood than a highway construction project. Maybe something extraterrestrial is lurking.

 TAMMY Susan Sarandon as Melissa McCarthy’s grandmother? Pretty hard to buy, even with Ms. Sarandon in that “Mama’s Family” wig. (There’s a 24-year age difference, in case you’re wondering.) A road-trip comedy, directed by Ben Falcone (Ms. McCarthy’s husband), with not even a remote connection to the Debbie Reynolds and Sandra Dee “Tammy” movies of yesteryear.

JULY 4

BEGIN AGAIN John Carney, who wrote and directed “Once,” brings us the story of two lost-souls who find each other in New York. Mark Ruffalo is a rumpled, self-destructive pop music producer who has lost his job. Keira Knightley is a radiant singer-songwriter whose aspiring-rock-star boyfriend (Adam Levine) has gotten a solo contract and left her behind. With Catherine Keener, Hailee Steinfeld, Cee Lo Green and Yasiin Bey (a.k.a. Mos Def).

LIFE ITSELF The Roger Ebert story, based on his memoir. Lots of love for Ebert, the beloved (and Pulitzer Prize-winning) Chicago Sun-Times film critic, who died last year. A documentary directed by Steve James, best known for “Hoop Dreams,” which Ebert once named the best film of the 1990s.

JULY 9

CLOSED CURTAIN From the Iranian filmmaker Jafar Panahi, the story of a reclusive screenwriter (Mr. Panahi) hiding from the world with only his little dog. Then a young woman fleeing the authorities bursts in and refuses to leave. Also starring Kambozia Partovi (who is the film’s co-director) and Maryam Moqadam.

JULY 11

AFFLUENZA What if “The Great Gatsby” had been set in 2008, right before the economy came tumbling down? The setting is the same as in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s Jazz Age novel: upscale Long Island. A nice middle-class boy (Ben Rosenfield) from upstate New York comes to stay with his rich cousin (Nicola Peltz) and gets all caught up. Marijuana and casual sex abound. Kevin Asch directed.

AND SO IT GOES From Rob Reiner, a comedy for the baby boomers. Michael Douglas stars as an obnoxious real estate guy, and Diane Keaton is the neighbor he turns to (selfishly) when he suddenly has to take care of a granddaughter he never knew he had. Sterling Jerins plays the 9-year-old girl.

AS IT IS IN HEAVEN Competing messiahs in a religious sect in Kentucky. The group’s dying leader (John Lina) shocks his followers by naming a newcomer (Chris Nelson) to succeed him, rather than his own son (Luke Beavers). Predictions of the end of the world ensue, so everyone feels pressured to take one side or the other. Directed by Joshua Overbay.

 BOYHOOD Richard Linklater does love to play with time. He follows up “Before Midnight” with this Texas coming-of-age tale filmed in real time. Yes, the star (Ellar Coltrane) was 7 when filming began and 19 when it finished. The cast and crew got together once a year, beginning in 2002, to shoot it. With Ethan Hawke and Patricia Arquette as his divorced parents.

COLDWATER A very strange reform school in the wilderness. A teenage boy (P. J. Boudousqué) is abducted in the middle of the night and taken there. There is no connection with the outside world, and a crazy man (James C. Burns) runs the place. A thriller, directed by Vincent Grashaw.

DAWN OF THE PLANET OF THE APES Fifteen years have passed since “Rise of the Planet of the Apes,” and Andy Serkis is back as Caesar, the intelligent ape who led his species to power. Gary Oldman plays the leader of the resistance in San Francisco. Jason Clarke and Keri Russell also play humans. Directed by Matt Reeves.

 A FIVE STAR LIFE From Italy, a drama that won its star, Margherita Buy, the best actress David di Donatello Award (Italy’s Oscar equivalent). Lucky Irene (Ms. Buy), a single woman in her 40s, has the greatest job in the world: just staying in luxurious hotels incognito and assessing them. And she convinces herself that she has a personal life by spending time with her sister, her two little nieces and an ex-lover with whom she remains friends. Then her support system fails. With Fabrizia Sacchi and Stefano Accorsi. Directed by Maria Sole Tognazzi.

 THE FLUFFY MOVIE A comedy concert starring Gabriel Iglesias, whose nickname is Fluffy (one of his early comedy shows was “I’m Not Fat I’m Fluffy”). Mr. Iglesias likes to wear Hawaiian shirts and make jokes about being Mexican-American, being obese and talking dirty to Krispy Kreme doughnuts.

THE KILL TEAM Dan Krauss’s documentary tells the story of a 21-year-old American soldier in Afghanistan trying to report war crimes to the powers that be. Trying.

LAND HO! Two men in their 60s try to recapture their youth on a trip to Iceland. A road comedy, with European scenery, written and directed by Martha Stephens and Aaron Katz. Paul Eenhoorn and Earl Lynn Nelson star.

A LONG WAY DOWN What is simultaneously the worst and best thing that can happen to a person who finally gets up the nerve to go to a building roof and commit suicide? To find three other people on the roof, planning the same thing. Pierce Brosnan, Toni Collette, Aaron Paul and Imogen Poots play those four strangers, who make a pact to try to find reasons to live. Based on the Nick Hornby novel and directed by Pascal Chaumeil.

 MAY IN THE SUMMER May Brennan is a sophisticated New York author who runs into all kinds of cultural conflict when she goes home to Amman, Jordan, for her wedding. Her mother (Hiam Abbass), a divorced born-again Christian, disapproves of her stable, sensible Muslim fiancé (Alexander Siddig). Her estranged father is played by Hollywood’s stable-sensible-fiancé type of yore, Bill Pullman. The Nebraska-born Cherien Dabis wrote, directed and makes her screen-acting debut in the title role.

ROAD TO PALOMA Think of it as a Native American “Easy Rider” or just a road-movie thriller. Jason Momoa (who was the warlord Drogo on “Game of Thrones”) stars as a young American Indian headed for the Tetons on his motorcycle. He’s on the run from the F.B.I. because he has just avenged his mother’s rape and murder. With Lisa Bonet (who is married to the filmmaker), looking fabulous. Mr. Momoa also directed and was one of the screenplay’s three writers.

THE SARNOS: A LIFE IN DIRTY MOVIES Joseph W. Sarno made sexploitation films (the headline of his obituary in The New York Times in 2010 said so), not pornography. His more than 100 directing credits included “Sin in the Suburbs” (1964) and “Little Oral Annie Takes Manhattan” (1985). This documentary, from Sweden but in English, follows Mr. Sarno and his wife and collaborator, Peggy Steffans Sarno, near the end of his life trying their darnedest to make one last movie. Directed by Wiktor Ericsson.

JULY 18

AFTERMATH After the big nuclear war, nine strangers are hiding together in a farmhouse cellar. And the zombies are coming. A horror thriller directed by Peter Engert. Edward Furlong and Monica Keena star.

I ORIGINS A science fiction drama about retinas and irises and pupils. Michael Pitt stars as a molecular biologist studying the evolution of the human eye who, with his lab partner (Brit Marling). makes an amazing discovery. Science meets spirituality (maybe the soul really does have windows), and the scientist searches for a mysterious woman with beautiful eyes. Written and directed by Mike Cahill.

 JUPITER ASCENDING One minute you’re cleaning toilets; the next, you’re controlling the universe — which was always your destiny, which you always kind of suspected. Mila Kunis plays Jupiter, the ladies’-room worker whose life changes overnight, thanks to Channing Tatum, who has just arrived from outer space. Andy and Lana Wachowski wrote and directed.

MOOD INDIGO Romain Duris and Audrey Tautou — yes, they have two films together coming to America this summer — star in a magical-realism-touched romance based on a cult postwar novel (“L’Écume des Jours”) by Boris Vian. He’s a wealthy bachelor. She’s the woman he falls in love with and marries, and her fairy-tale disease is a water lily growing in her lungs. The only cure: More flowers, a lot more flowers. Michel Gondry directed.

 PLANES: FIRE & RESCUE An animated 3-D sequel to “Disney’s Planes.” Dusty Crophopper (the voice of Dane Cook), who made a career change from crop-duster to racer in the first movie, may never compete again because his wing is damaged. But he has yet another chance to reinvent himself: There’s a wildfire at a national park, clearly a job for elite aerial firefighters, like Windlifter the helicopter and Cabbie the former military transport. Directed by Roberts Gannaway.

THE PURGE: ANARCHY In the future, once a year all crimes — including murder — will be legal for 12 hours, and nobody will help, because all hospitals and emergency services are shut down for the duration. This thriller is a sequel to “Anarchy” (2013). Same director: James DeMonaco. Same premise, this time with a young couple (Zach Gilford and Kiele Sanchez) whose car breaks down just as the so-called purge begins.

RICH HILL Winner of the documentary grand jury prize at Sundance this year. The title is the name of a town in Missouri where Andrew Droz Palermo and Tracy Droz Tragos, the co-directors, follow three poor Midwestern boys, with an eye toward family bonds and human dignity.

WISH I WAS HERE Zach Braff follows up his feature directing debut, “Garden State,” about an actor in his 20s feeling lost and going off his meds, as the director and star of this comic drama about an actor in his 30s feeling lost and trying to home-school his children. (The film’s title suggests that English classes will skip the subjunctive.) With Kate Hudson, Jim Parsons, Mandy Patinkin and Josh Gad.

JULY 23

A MASTER BUILDER A little Ibsen for the summer, directed by Jonathan Demme. Wallace Shawn stars as Halvard Solness, a successful, obsessive and domineering Norwegian architect in his 60s, who is (in this version, Mr. Shawn’s adaptation) on his deathbed. Solness finds himself miraculously revived by the visit of a young female admirer. With André Gregory (who produced it for the stage), Julie Hagerty and Lisa Joyce.

JULY 25

CANNIBAL Carlos is the finest tailor in Granada, Spain, catering to the rich and powerful. And in his off-hours, he murders women and eats them. In this thriller from Spain, Carlos (Antonio de la Torre) exhibits an unashamed callousness that would make Hannibal Lecter proud but finds gentler emotions awakened when a young woman from Romania (Olimpia Melinte), a paragon of innocence, comes looking for her missing twin sister. Directed by Manuel Martín Cuenca.

HAPPY CHRISTMAS A comedy drama from the mumblecore pioneer Joe Swanberg. A Chicago filmmaker (Mr. Swanberg), his novelist wife (Melanie Lynskey) and their 2-year-old boy find their lives disrupted when the filmmaker’s little sister (Anna Kendrick) moves in. And her new best friend (Lena Dunham) turns out to be the neighborhood pot dealer.

 HERCULES The Radical Comics version of the Greek demigod who became a sword-for-hire after that whole 12 labors thing was over is hired by the King of Thrace to eliminate a warlord. Dwayne Johnson, the artist formerly known as the Rock, plays the title role. The cast also includes Ian McShane, Rufus Sewell and Joseph Fiennes. Brett Ratner directed.

MAGIC IN THE MOONLIGHT Woody Allen returns to France, this time the glamorous Riviera in the glamorous 1920s. (The period that the 21st-century hero of Mr. Allen’s “Midnight in Paris” romanticized.) Emma Stone is the requisite beautiful young woman. Colin Firth plays an Englishman assigned to investigate a swindle. The eclectic cast also includes Marcia Gay Harden, Eileen Atkins and Hamish Linklater.

A MOST WANTED MAN Philip Seymour Hoffman is a calm, cool German spy, the hero of a John le Carré novel set in Hamburg. The focus of this spy thriller is a mysterious half-Chechen, half-Russian Islamic immigrant (Grigoriy Dobrygin) who becomes a pawn in the war on terror. With Robin Wright, Rachel McAdams and Willem Dafoe. Directed by Anton Corbijn.

SEX TAPE After 10 years of marriage, lovemaking has become rather ordinary for one couple (Cameron Diaz and Jason Segel), so they try to work up a little excitement by making a three-hour movie of their best moves in bed. Then they lose the tape. A comedy, directed by Jake Kasdan, with a supporting cast that includes Rob Lowe, Jack Black and Rob Corddry.

STEP UP: ALL IN Those dangerous dancing kids from Baltimore, from “Step Up” and “Step Up 2: The Streets,” go to Las Vegas. Trish Sie directed.

VERY GOOD GIRLS How to lose your virginity in hip modern-day Brooklyn. Two teenage best friends (Dakota Fanning and Elizabeth Olsen) are determined to do just that, before they leave for college. But things become weird when they fall for the same guy, a street artist (Boyd Holbrook, who made his film debut in “Milk”). With Demi Moore, Peter Sarsgaard, Kiernan Shipka (Sally Draper on “Mad Men”) and Richard Dreyfuss. From Naomi Foner, who wrote “Losing Isaiah” and “Running on Empty,” making her directorial debut.

August

AUG. 1

CALVARY A good-guy Irish priest (Brendan Gleeson) receives a death threat during confession — from a man who says he was abused by priests earlier in his life. An extremely dark comedy written and directed by John Michael McDonagh. With Kelly Reilly as the priest’s daughter (he was married before attending seminary in middle age).

CABIN FEVER: PATIENT ZERO An idyllic Caribbean cruise turns into a horror story for three bachelor pals in this prequel to Eli Roth’s “Cabin Fever.” If only the guys hadn’t taken a swim in contaminated water. If only they hadn’t explored the research lab where a flesh-eating virus was lying in wait. With Sean Astin, Currie Graham and Ryan Donowho. Directed by Kaare Andrews.

CHILD OF GOD  James Franco directs and appears in this drama based on a Cormac McCarthy novel set in 1960s Tennessee. Scott Haze stars as an isolated, disaffected man who descends to the level of a cave dweller.

ENTER THE DANGEROUS MIND Jake Hoffman (son of Dustin Hoffman) stars in this thriller as a mentally ill dubstep musician who becomes obsessed with a pretty social worker (Nikki Reed). Scott Bakula is her mentor, who tries to help because the situation is threatening to blow up. Thomas Dekker is the young man’s supposed friend. Directed by Youssef Delara and Victor Teran.

GET ON UP In which Papa gets a brand-new bag. The story of James Brown (1933-2006), Godfather of Soul, from Southern poverty to funk stardom, with Chadwick Boseman (who played Jackie Robinson in “42” last year) in the title role. Tate Taylor (“The Help”) directed. The cast also includes Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer and Dan Aykroyd.

GUARDIANS OF THE GALAXY From the folks at Marvel Studios, another group of superheroes facing evil cosmic forces. One of them is a raccoon, one is kind of a tree, and this is not a cartoon. Directed by James Gunn, with a cast that includes Chris Pratt, Zoe Saldana, John C. Reilly and the raccoonish voice of Bradley Cooper.

WHAT IF Daniel Radcliffe, only three years past the “Harry Potter” movies, stars as a medical-school dropout who has given up on love after a young lifetime of bad relationships. He’s surrounded by people who have found “the one,” including his new pal (Zoe Kazan), who has a longtime live-in boyfriend (Rafe Spall). But gosh, she’s nice. A romantic comedy and drama hybrid, directed by Michael Dowse. With Adam Driver, Megan Park and Mackenzie Davis.

AUG. 6

WEB JUNKIE An absolutely literal title. China is said to be the first nation to have classified Internet addiction as an actual clinical disorder and to have set up rehab clinics. This documentary, from two Israeli directors (Hilla Medalia and Shosh Shlam), goes inside them.

AUG. 8

THE GREEN PRINCE A documentary about Israeli intelligence. The story of Mosab Hassan Yousef, the Palestinian son of a Hamas founder and leader, who switched sides and spied against the organization he had been groomed to lead one day. Nadav Schirman directed.

THE HUNDRED-FOOT JOURNEY Restaurant wars in the South of France, with Helen Mirren as the grande dame who has no intention of losing her customers or her Michelin star. The threat: An immigrant family who open an Indian restaurant right under her nose. Unexpected result: Fusion cuisine. Also starring Om Puri and Manish Dayal. Directed by Lasse Hallstrom.

INTO THE STORM  In “Twister,” we saw cows tossed through the air during a tornado. In this thriller, set in an unlucky town hit by multiple twisters in one day, we see commercial jetliners, a whole tumbling herd of them. Richard Armitage, Sarah Wayne Callies and Jeremy Sumpter star. Steven Quale directed.

JAMES CAMERON’S DEEPSEA CHALLENGE 3-D Mr. Cameron, who hasn’t been the same since “Titanic” (1997), takes a submarine expedition to the deepest part of the ocean in this documentary.

LUCY Scarlett Johansson acquires superpowers in a particularly ugly way in this action thriller. Her character is forced to be a drug mule, then is beaten so violently that the drugs leak into her system. Her superness is mental as well as physical, and she turns for guidance to a professor (Morgan Freeman) doing research on the human brain. Meanwhile, she can stop time and control the Jumbotron in Times Square. From Luc Besson, whose films have included “La Femme Nikita” and “The Fifth Element.”

SALVO A Mafia movie from Italy (and France) that could have a love theme. Saleh Bakri plays Salvo, a hit man for a Sicilian organization, whose cold heart is touched when a young blind woman (Sara Serraiocco) has to stand by while he assassinates her brother. Salvo decides to spare her, and things go from there. A romance-crime-drama blend written and directed by Fabio Grassadonia and Antonio Piazza.

TEENAGE MUTANT NINJA TURTLES Turtles just want to have fun. At least that’s true of the four giant ones who talk, walk upright, love pizza, fight crime (when necessary) with their martial arts skills and live in New York’s sewers. They’re back, and Megan Fox (as a determined reporter) has got them. Will Arnett is her smart-aleck camera operator. William Fichtner plays the villain. The turtles are the heroes, just as they were on television and in the original 1990 film. Jonathan Liebesman directed.

AUG. 13

LET’S BE COPS Two pals in their 30s whose lives are going nowhere — Damon Wayans Jr. and Jake Johnson (from the sitcom “New Girl”) — decide to dress up as police officers for a costume party. They love the way people react to them in uniform, so they keep up the buddy-cops act in real life. The pose is lots of fun when they’re called to quell a disturbance involving intoxicated sorority sisters, but not so much when they run into real mobsters. With Andy Garcia and Nina Dobrev. Directed by Luke Greenfield.

AUG. 15

AS ABOVE, SO BELOW Didn’t we always know there was something suspicious about the Catacombs of Paris? What kind of tourist attraction is just a big underground space filled with human skeletons? In John Erick Dowdle’s thriller, some modern-day explorers appear to learn its real secret. Personal demons, among other things, are roused.

DINOSAUR 13 A documentary about the American paleontologists who in 1990 made a major discovery — the largest, most complete Tyrannosaurus rex skeleton ever — and then ran into nothing but trouble over it. Directed by Todd Douglas Miller.

THE EXPENDABLES 3 Mel Gibson is the villain (a ruthless arms dealer) in this sequel about old men with machine guns. So, Sylvester Stallone again leads a band of aging action stars, this time including Harrison Ford, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Wesley Snipes, Dolph Lundgren and Jet Li. Their strategy: Hire young, tech-savvy Expendables. Patrick Hughes directed.

THE GIVER Jonas leads a life of calm contentment, like everyone else in the peaceful black-and-white world around him. But in this sci-fi drama, based on Lois Lowry’s acclaimed young adult novel, Jonas (Brenton Thwaites) learns the truth about humanity (war, death, pain, loneliness) at the age of 12 when he is named the community’s Receiver of Mem. Jeff Bridges plays the Giver of Memory, who understands when Jacob is intrigued by these revelations and wants to escape. With Meryl Streep, Alexander Skarsgard, Katie Holmes and Taylor Swift (as the Giver’s daughter). Directed by Phillip Noyce, whose other political statements have included “Clear and Present Danger” and “The Quiet American.”

LIFE AFTER BETH It’s a tragedy for Zach (Dane De Haan) when his girlfriend, Beth (Aubrey Plaza), dies suddenly. But a miracle happens, she comes back to life, and he vows to make her incredibly happy. But she’s, uh, changed. And some characters in this film have the word “zombie” in their names. With Anna Kendrick, John C. Reilly and Molly Shannon. Written and directed by Jeff Baena.

THE ONE I LOVE When your marriage is in trouble, what do you do? If you are Sophie and Ethan, you go away for a romantic weekend retreat and hope that spatial and temporal anomalies do not present themselves. With Elisabeth Moss (all blond), Mark Duplass and Ted Danson. Charlie McDowell directed.

THE TRIP TO ITALY A Briton and a Welshman walk into a restaurant. Make that six restaurants, all in Italy, on a culinary tour from Liguria to Capri. Steve Coogan and Rob Brydon star in this follow-up to their 2010 film, “The Trip,” also directed by Michael Winterbottom. Mr. Winterbottom focuses on the men’s conversations, so they could be going for “My Dinner With André,” with scenery and risotto.

AUG. 18

MOEBIUS A drama about castration, literally, from South Korea. Dad is having an affair, Mom decides to commit a Lorena Bobbitt with a kitchen knife, and when her efforts are thwarted, she inexplicably takes the knife to her teenage son instead. Father makes the ultimate (genital) sacrifice in solidarity with his son, and both try to adjust. With Cho Jae-hyun, Lee Eun-woo and Seo Young-ju. Directed by Kim Ki-duk.

AUG. 20

THE EXPEDITION TO THE END OF THE WORLD In this documentary from Scandinavia, an unusual band of adventurers board a three-mast schooner and head for northeastern Greenland to watch mountains of ice melt. The group includes artists, a geologist, a photographer and a marine biologist (the only woman). Daniel Dencik directed.

AUG. 22

FRANK  Michael Fassbender finds time between “Prometheus” and “X-Men” movies to play the title role in this British comic drama. A young would-be musician (Domhnall Gleeson) from the suburbs gets a job with a band but runs into lots of tension and possibly insanity. For one thing, the frontman (Mr. Fassbender) — inspired by the British comic and pop star who became known as Frank Sidebottom — likes to wear a huge papier-mâché head. Maggie Gyllenhaal is the theremin player. Lenny Abrahamson directed.

FRANK MILLER’S SIN CITY: A DAME TO KILL FOR Back to Mr. Miller’s world of trench coats and push-up bras. He and his co-director, Robert Rodriguez, revisit the hard-boiled Basin City in a sequel to the 2005 film based on Mr. Miller’s comic book universe. The cast includes some return visitors, among them Mickey Rourke, Bruce Willis, Jessica Alba and Powers Boothe. With Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Josh Brolin, Dennis Haysbert and Eva Green.

 IF I STAY A happy, loved, musical teenage girl (Chloë Grace Moretz) is in a car accident. Her whole family is killed, and she’s in a coma. Should she go into the light or hang around on earth? Directed by R. J. Cutler, whose past films have been about power figures like Dick Cheney and Anna Wintour.

THE LIBERATOR From Venezuela, a drama about Simón Bolívar (1783-1830), the military hero who led five South American countries to independence from Spain. Alberto Arvelo directed. Bolívar is played by Édgar Ramírez, who played Cyrano in Mr. Arvelo’s film “Cyrano Fernández.”

LOVE IS STRANGE John Lithgow and Alfred Molina play a couple who have been together for 39 years and decide to make it legal, once New York allows same-sex marriage. But as a result, Mr. Molina’s character loses his job (choir director at a Roman Catholic school) and the couple lose their apartment. Forced to live apart, at least for a while, one man moves in with two of New York’s finest (Cheyenne Jackson and Manny Perez), and the other goes to stay with a nephew and his family (Darren E. Burrows, Marisa Tomei and Charlie Tahan). A drama, directed by Ira Sachs.

WHEN THE GAME STANDS TALL A sports drama starring Jim Caviezel as Bob Ladouceur, the real-life California high school football coach who racked up a 151-game winning streak. That’s 12 consecutive undefeated seasons. Directed by Thomas Carter.

AUG. 27

THROUGH A LENS DARKLY: BLACK PHOTOGRAPHERS AND THE EMERGENCE OF A PEOPLE The camera as a tool for social change, since the invention of photography. A documentary directed by Thomas Allen Harris.

UNDERDOGS From Argentina, an animated tale about a boy (the voice of Rupert Grint, a.k.a. Ron Weasley of “Harry Potter”) with a fight on his hands. Happily, the foosball players from his favorite arcade come to life and help him. Directed by Juan José Campanella.

AUG. 29

THE CONGRESS For movie stars, this is what it may come to. A fictional and animated version of Robin Wright (played by Ms. Wright) needs money, so she gives her studio permission to preserve and use her digital likeness however the executives see fit. Two decades later, her digital image becomes a star. How to deal with the comeback? From the Israeli director Ari Folman, who won an Oscar for “Waltz With Bashir.” With Jon Hamm (as the studio’s head of animation), Harvey Keitel and Paul Giamatti.

FIFI HOWLS FROM HAPPINESS A documentary about the reclusive Modernist Iranian painter Bahman Mohassess, who lived in self-imposed exile in Rome until his death in 2010. Written and directed by Mitra Farahani.

JESSABELLE There’s a reason so many urban adults don’t like going home to their faraway small towns, and the title character (Sarah Snook) of this horror movie learns it fast. When Jessabelle returns to her childhood home in Louisiana to recover after a horrible auto accident, she finds a tortured evil spirit there who has just been waiting to get its hands on her. Maybe the moral here is: You can’t leave home again. Kevin Greutert directed. Mark Webber, David Andrews and Joelle Carter also star.

LIFE OF CRIME A dark caper based on an Elmore Leonard novel (“The Switch”). Tim Robbins plays a real estate vulture. Jennifer Aniston is his wife, who gets kidnapped. He decides not to pay the ransom. Daniel Schechter wrote and directed. The cast also includes Isla Fisher and Will Forte.

THE LOFT Cute Eric Stonestreet from “Modern Family,” hunky James Marsden (from “The Notebook” and “Hairspray”) and intense Karl Urban (from “Almost Human”) in a psychological thriller. Five men decide to share a city apartment for the purpose of clandestine affairs and wild fantasies but, oops, they soon discover a dead body there. A remake of the director Erik Van Looy’s own 2008 Belgian film of the same name.

THE NOTEBOOK No Gena Rowlands and James Garner dying in each other’s arms. No Ryan Gosling and Rachel McAdams having makeup sex in the rain. This Hungarian drama stars real-life twin brothers, Andras Gyemant and Laszlo Gyemant, as twins trying to survive World War II by taking notes and learning from the evil they see around them. Janos Szasz directed.

ONE CHANCE  They introduced him as “a mobile phone salesman from South Wales” when he first appeared on “Britain’s Got Talent.” Then Paul Potts, an amateur British tenor in his mid-30s, sang “Nessun dorma,” and the world stood still. (More impressive, Simon Cowell acknowledged him.) James Corden, whom Broadway audiences know from “The History Boys” and “One Man, Two Guvnors,” plays Potts, who in 2007 won that talent show’s first season and enjoyed a major boost in self-esteem and income. With Julie Walter, Colm Meaney and Alexandra Roach. Directed by David Frankel. All cq

STARRED UP A prison drama starring Jack O’Connell as a violent 19-year-old who is moved to an adult institution, where his estranged father (Ben Mendelsohn) is also an inmate. Volatility is everywhere (gangs, institutional corruption, Dad himself), but a volunteer psychotherapist (Rupert Friend) who runs an anger management group behind bars may be able to help. Directed by David Mackenzie.

Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O’Connor.