Created by the Norwegian artist Hariton Pushwagner between 1969 and 1975, then unseen for decades, the astonishing cartoon treatise SOFT CITY (New York Review Comics, $35.) has finally arrived in the United States. Its oversize pages depict city life as an identity-annihilating, cookie-cutter horror, observed by a baby named Bingo. After waking up and taking their daily “Life” pill, countless identical men in hats wave to their wives and babies, go to their identical cars and flow in a river of traffic to mammoth parking garages and grids of office workstations. The women push carts down the aisles of gigantic supermarkets in a mute frenzy of consumption; a powerful boss watches scenes of tanks and factories on an enormous screen. Then everyone repeats the pattern in reverse. At home, they watch military atrocities on TV, retreat to their beds and take a pill marked “Sleep.”

That’s not much of a story, but the point of “Soft City” is the obsessive execution and scale of Pushwagner’s vision. Bingo and his parents, at the beginning and end, are blank, looming forms; in the commuting and work scenes that make up the bulk of the book, Pushwagner draws thousands of vehicles or desks or workers in symmetrical perspective with a thin, uneasy line, receding into infinitesimal marks at the horizon. Occasionally, there’s a flash of narration — “We are secure. You have to be secure” — or thought-balloon babble — “Soft bartender cream feeling. Streamline first class business taste of life!” Labels abound: “soft park,” “soft TV,” “soft meat.” Everything in Pushwagner’s inferno is comfortable, and nothing is bearable.

Another hellish variation on received notions of domesticity fuels this year’s most compelling comic-book serial, The Vision, by Tom King and Gabriel Hernandez Walta, whose first half has been collected as THE VISION: Little Worse Than a Man (Marvel, paper, $17.99) — the conclusion, “Little Better Than a Beast,” is due out this month. The Vision is a robot superhero who has “saved the world 37 times.” He’s built himself a robot wife, Virginia, and two robot teenage children, Vin and Viv, and they’ve moved to a pretty off-white house in Arlington, Va., to try to become more like humans. A long, horrific slide to disaster immediately ensues.

There’s a murder, a cover-up and, in their wake, cascading catastrophes, as the robots act in hapless accordance with their understanding of how emotions and relationships are supposed to work. Even as the story’s tone darkens, King plays the Vision family’s imitation of human rituals for laughs: The robotic parents bicker mechanically about domestic responsibilities while the Vision is “at work.” (“Wife, I am listening. It is just that I am also fighting Giganto.”) And Walta’s artwork (as well as Jordie Bellaire’s coloring, with its impending-rainstorm palette) embraces human imperfection — even the straight lines of buildings have a freehand wobble, and blots of ink jut over panel borders. “The Merchant of Venice,” which provides both volumes’ titles, is a recurring presence in the story, jabbing at its themes of what makes actions just and what counts as fully human. “Mother?” Vin asks Virginia at one point, with an expression of analytical curiosity. “If you prick me, do I bleed?”

Tom Gauld’s MOONCOP (Drawn & Quarterly, $19.95) is a much quieter, more playful treatment of human alienation and technological chilliness. The nameless title character is on an extended assignment to police the first lunar colony — but there’s nothing to police, since almost everyone has already given up and gone home to Earth. Gauld’s characters have no visible mouths, and dots for eyes. A few boxy buildings dot their desolate landscape; there’s a doughnut vending machine, a floating car that mostly works, a handful of settlers who’ve decided they’d probably be happier elsewhere, and various robots including a sort of audio-animatronic Neil Armstrong, endlessly narrating his lunar landing. Eventually, the lonely cop is assigned a therapy robot (“Don’t worry,” it says, “I’ve prepared a very relaxed treatment schedule for you”) who arrives without the right power adapter.

There’s something of Chris Ware’s bitter “Tales of Tomorrow” cartoons in Gauld’s deadpan compositions and precise geometric forms, but “Mooncop” steers clear of Ware’s fury. This is a light, rueful comedy, whose motor is the absence of anything happening. (It occasionally feints at offering the sort of adventure its premise suggests — an alarm goes off, or there’s a foreboding computer error — only to immediately resolve the problem.) There are long, lovely silent passages as characters cross the abandoned lunar plains, which are rendered with mannered crosshatching, the sky behind them a field of dark blue pricked with white-dot stars. Even when dreams don’t quite work out, the book suggests, it can still be possible to find beauty in them.

TETRIS: The Games People Play (First Second, paper, $19.99) is Box Brown’s history of how the world came to be obsessed with dropping simple shapes into a grid. It’s a twisty, digressive tale, beginning with the Moscow computer scientist Alexey Pajitnov thinking about block puzzles in 1984, but also encompassing anti-gambling laws in 19th-century Japan, byzantine business deals, the thawing of the Cold War, an explanation of the particular psychological itch that Tetris scratches and a murder-suicide. Brown argues for the game’s importance: Initially a hit on home video-game systems and coin-operated consoles alike, it was simple and addictive enough to become the killer app that made hand-held platforms like the Gameboy desirable. Brown’s got a broad, cleanly minimalist drawing style, augmented with bright yellow tones — the cartooning equivalent of 8-bit animation. (His nervous characters have sweat drops flying off their foreheads; the sound effect of a game cartridge being dramatically set on a negotiation table is PLACE.) Still, his designs for the prominent actors in Tetris’s history are distinctive enough to identify immediately, and, as in the game, the story never stops moving until its final pieces are in place.

In her introduction to ANGEL CATBIRD (Dark Horse, $14.99), Margaret Atwood writes about her fondness for the superheroes and surrealism of the comics she read as a child in the 1940s. Her first graphic novel has what seems to be a deliberately similar tone: flat and declarative, casually silly, not particularly coherent. Its protagonist, Strig Feleedus, is a scientist whose “super-splicer serum” turns him into a winged cat-man, or rather a “half-cat,” as his love interest Cate Leone explains to him. Strig’s boss, the wicked, rat-affiliated Professor Muroid, is given to villainous speechifying. (“I must know his every move . . . the better to capture him, extract the formula from him and then eliminate him!”) There’s also a vampire bat/cat/human hybrid, Count Catula, who offers our hero some “mouse-blood champagne.” A slowly meandering plot involving a “remote-controlled rat army” and a nightclub for half-cats is cut off by a cliffhanger ending before it really goes anywhere.

Johnnie Christmas’s linework is pleasantly raw and chunky, especially when he gets to hint at nature’s bloody teeth and claws, although the bland office scenes that dominate the story’s first half plod like a well-intentioned educational comic book. (The cat facts pasted in every few pages don’t help on that score.) There are hints here of Atwood’s knack for batting at the conventions of genre stories, but the bite of her prose and of her political insight is mostly lacking from this directionless exercise.

The most familiar flavors of comics memoir these days are My Childhood Among Political Complications and How My Relative Survived the Holocaust. Marcelino Truong’s SUCH A LOVELY LITTLE WAR: Saigon 1961-63 (Arsenal Pulp Press, $26.95) is one of the former: Originally published in French four years ago, it owes a good deal of its form and tone to Marjane Satrapi’s “Persepolis.” In 1961, when Truong was a small child, his father, then the cultural attaché at South Vietnam’s Washington embassy, brought the family back home to Saigon and began working as an interpreter for the Vietnamese president Ngo Dinh Diem. By the time of the coup two years later in which Diem was assassinated, the Truong family had already moved to London.

Truong was largely insulated from the Vietnam War’s violence; his book is most engaging when he draws the way he experienced Saigon as a young child, keeping fighting crickets in matchboxes, visiting Catholic churches and cheap movie theaters, walking past public displays of confiscated Vietcong mortars, understanding the war only as something exciting that was happening in the distance (and that his parents sometimes argued about). Those scenes are punctuated by explanations of what was actually happening in the conflict and its political context, as well as battlefield sequences that quickly turn stagy. What holds the book together is Truong’s artwork: confident, contoured brush strokes with watercolor washes, alternating between full color and monochromatic tints. He shows us that what was happening in Vietnam was a nightmare, but also that his youthful perspective made it seem, at the time, like an adventure.

Amy Kurzweil’s FLYING COUCH: A Graphic Memoir (Black Balloon, $18.95) is one of the Holocaust-survivor variety: The survivor was Kurzweil’s grandmother, who escaped from Warsaw because, with her blond hair and blue eyes, she could convincingly deny that she was Jewish. (Excerpts from her oral history of her experience appear throughout the book in typeset form, sometimes accompanied by illustrations of the events she describes and sometimes by Kurzweil’s renderings of photographs and other documents.) But she’s only part of the story. The book’s title refers to a psychoanalyst’s couch, which Kurzweil’s psychologist mother told her could allow “the mind to travel to all sorts of places.” That leads, in turn, to the central visual metaphor here: the view from above. Occasionally, we see a building or city from a bird’s-eye perspective, its relevant parts diagrammatically labeled; more broadly, the arc of Kurzweil’s narrative is an overview of three generations of Jewish women, and the ways they echo one another.

It’s an ambitious plan, and Kurzweil studs it with some charming set pieces. Her attempt to figure out her Jewish identity in college finds her posing behind a series of carnival cutouts labeled “Ardent Pro-Israel Jew,” “Politically and Culturally Apathetic Jew” and so on, then being visited by dream apparitions of Jacob, Sigmund Freud and Theodor Herzl, and finally declaring, “But I just want to draw pictures” — whereupon Art Spiegelman, Will Eisner and Harvey Pekar start chasing her. Still, the book’s stream-of-consciousness form often leads it to ramble and lose focus. When Kurzweil travels to Germany at one point to see where her mother was born, she feels “strange, disembodied . . . I’m always mining life for a good story, but all I ever see, I fear, is just my own reflection.”

BECOMING UNBECOMING (Arsenal Pulp, $24.95), by a cartoonist who identifies herself only as Una, begins by circling around traumatic childhood moments and a menacing time and place: the mid-1970s in Northern England, when Peter Sutcliffe, the Yorkshire Ripper, was murdering women, and the author was repeatedly sexually assaulted beginning when she was 10 years old. But Una’s personal experience is less the center of this story than the springboard for an extended examination of what she calls “the four horsemen of gender violence — shame, isolation, disbelief, ridicule.” Sexist assumptions about “loose morals,” she notes, led police to ignore evidence that might have stopped Sutcliffe sooner. In one bravura sequence, she renders 72 police portraits of West Yorkshire women’s attackers from that era in her own hand. In aggregate, they’re unmistakably depictions of Sutcliffe: “just another violent male, staring them in the face.”

Una’s artwork (mostly black and white, with occasional jolts of flat color) rarely bothers with literal representation for more than a few panels at a time. Instead, she underscores her arguments with symbolic imagery: paper dolls, delicate sketches of imaginary insect-women, distorted and half-concealed contours of rapists’ faces. The book concludes with a heartbreaking series of portraits of Sutcliffe’s victims as they might look today if they had survived — all of them more naturalistic than Una’s self-portraits as a blank female form in a plain white frock. “I’m glad to be alive,” she writes, “but I wonder who I would have been, had I not been interrupted so rudely?”

Dr. Pamela Ling and Judd Winick, who this summer celebrated their 15th wedding anniversary, had people rooting for their relationship long before they started dating.

They met in 1994 after they were chosen to be among seven roommates on “Real World: San Francisco,” the third season of MTV’s pioneering reality program. She was a medical student, and he was an aspiring cartoonist.

The show’s producers had hoped that romance would blossom on air between the two (they even compiled footage for a potential episode, “Judd’s Search for Love”), but that was not to be.

Mr. Winick compared his relationship then with Dr. Ling to a 747 ready to take off that had been grounded on the runway. “We were in the friend zone because she had a boyfriend and we were on a television show,” he said.

That the romance got started after the finale may be a key to their success, given the lack of longevity of many reality-show pairings. Their wedding was chronicled  in a Sept. 9, 2001, Vows column in The New York Times.

Mr. Winick cautions would-be lovers appearing on reality shows that waiting to connect is the wiser course.

“I can’t imagine you’re completely you when you’re on camera,’’ he said. “It’s when the camera stops that you finally get to assess.”

Off set, Dr. Ling and Mr. Winick bonded over their mutual geekiness.

“She’s kind of shockingly nerdy,” he said.

It is a description that she accepts with pride: “I went to astronomy camp, and I went a year earlier than anyone else.”

Early on, they were immersed in “Star Wars” films. And even today, Mr. Winick said, “We still love and get obsessive about things together.”

Their shared fascinations include goofy earworm videos by Parry Gripp, musicals like “Rent,” “Avenue Q” and “Hamilton” and television shows like “Game of Thrones” and “Project Runway.”

They cite these common interests as one of the ways they have managed to keep their relationship fresh and exciting.

“Celebrate your common joys,” Dr. Ling said.

The of-the-moment compulsions are constantly replenished. “It happens every year,” Mr. Winick said. “Something new will come down the pike that becomes part of our zeitgeist and vocabulary. The kids pick up the baton and run with it.”

Dr. Ling, 48, and Mr. Winick, 46, who live in San Francisco, have been careful about keeping their son and daughter from the public eye; they have avoided posting photographs of them on social media and asked that their names not be used in this article. They want their children to be able to choose for themselves, if the time comes, whether to enter the spotlight.

But Mr. Winick joked that, with reality TV more prevalent than ever, their children may have to participate in a show one day as part of some sort of public service: “They pay for college, but you have to do three seasons on the E! network.”

After “Real World,” both Mr. Winick and Dr. Ling have enjoyed successful careers.

He is now a veteran comic-book writer and graphic novelist; Dr. Ling is a professor of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. Her focus is studying how tobacco is marketed to young people, and her goal is to “make trouble for tobacco companies,” she said, and to “help hipsters quit smoking.”

Together Dr. Ling and Mr. Winick help oversee the Pedro Zamora Young Leaders Scholarship, which gives small endowments to students committed to AIDS education. It is a way of honoring Mr. Zamora, their MTV roommate and AIDS educator who died of complications from AIDS in 1994.

“I only wish we had 10 times the money to give away,” she said. (The bond between Dr. Ling and Mr. Winick deepened after they both flew to Miami to be at Mr. Zamora’s side before he died.)

If there could ever be said to be any strain in their marriage, it may arise out of their mutual devotion to work.

Dr. Ling mentioned a period of creative malaise for Mr. Winick when he was writing comics for Marvel and DC, but he was longing to get back to his cartoonist roots. “ ‘Judd is not always a happy person’ is the kind way to say it,” Dr. Ling said.

How did she deal with this blue period? “I let Judd watch television. This is something his parents started when he was a kid. You can’t fight nature. It’s his opiate of choice.”

Mr. Winick found his path again illustrating and writing “Hilo,” a graphic novel about a boy who crashes to Earth.

“He’s still the same Judd, but 30 percent less angry just because the work is a better fit,” Dr. Ling said.

The couple’s most trying period came over a decade ago, when Mr. Winick was working outside San Francisco on “The Life and Times of Juniper Lee,” an animated TV series he had created. “I was flying down to Burbank three days a week while Pam was up here, still working and pregnant with our son,” he said.

It should have been a magical period, but the work and commute were a drain on them and stressed the relationship.

All Mr. Winick wanted to talk about was the animated series, and Dr. Ling was understandably less enthusiastic about discussing the very thing that was keeping them apart. As the due date neared, Mr. Winick chose to spend less time at the show to make sure he was there for the birth.

“I didn’t think this TV show was going to be around for 90 years, but this kid will be,” he said.

Dr. Ling’s memories of that time are hazier. “The only thing harder than being pregnant and alone is single parenting,” she said. But she was so sleep-deprived, she said, that “I don’t remember it much.”

Today, finding the right professional-personal balance continues to present challenges. “Working full time, seeing patients and doing research and having a family is virtually an impossible thing to do,” she said.

Mr. Winick said, “If we fight over anything, we fight that Pam works too hard.”

Dr. Ling has recently added another item on her agenda, but it is one of pure enjoyment: She is singing with the San Francisco Choral Society, a throwback to the year she took off before medical school to pursue a musical career.

“I went around New York City and auditioned for really bad bands,” she said. Her passion for singing was reignited at a Harvard reunion, where she performed with a group at a memorial. “I realized I love to do this,” she said.

Mr. Winick said, “Most importantly, Pam is spending time with a nonwork-related activity,” then added to his wife: “Admit it: You’re a lot happier.”

“I am: I’m enjoying it,” she responded.

Part of her rekindled love for singing inspired her husband to buy sheet music for her to play on their piano. Songs from “Hamilton” and “Star Wars” are on heavy rotation.

Each of them shared a few insights on how to make a relationship work.

Dr. Ling said: “Embrace your differences or complementary characteristics. I’m externally motivated, while Judd is internally motivated. I’m left brain, while Judd is right brain. I write science, while Judd writes stories.”

For Mr. Winick, “Communication is key,” he said. “Know that you’re human. Know that sometimes it isn’t about you; it is the other person. And know that sometimes it is about you.”

To the list of famous things that have been discontinued only to be resurrected later — Marvel Comics, the Muppets and Twinkies, to name but three — add bar cars on the Metro-North Railroad.

Gov. Dannel P. Malloy of Connecticut announced plans on Tuesday to buy 60 new coaches for the New Haven line. Ten will be cafe cars, as a news release from the governor’s office described them.

But beverages ordered by homeward-bound commuters in the days of Don Draper were stronger than coffee. The news release acknowledged that without actually saying so, noting that the cafe cars were “popularly known as bar cars.” A prototype is expected to arrive by late 2018.

The mention of bar cars summoned memories of gray flannel and red ink, except that the bar cars were moneymakers, even in the darkest days of Metro-North’s predecessor 50 years ago, the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad. Those were the days of chugging a beer while the train chugged along. Or ordering a Manhattan as the train pulled out of Manhattan, or having a martini before it reached Mamaroneck.

The last Metro-North bar cars were also the last in the nation when they were retired in 2014. They could not be coupled to newer cars.

The announcement on Tuesday came as Connecticut, which is responsible for the operation of the New Haven line outside of New York State, prepared to hold public hearings on a 5 percent fare increase that would take effect in December.

Chris Collibee, an aide to Mr. Malloy, a Democrat, said the decision to bring back bar cars was not meant to appease commuters unhappy about higher prices.

“Not at all,” Mr. Collibee said. “It was something that legislators and customers had asked for.”

He sounded less than enthusiastic, and was asked if he had missed the bar cars. “I’ll be honest,” he said. “I’m not the biggest drinker in the world. I have plenty of friends who are excited.”

Judging by presentation photographs from the governor’s office labeled “preliminary design” and “subject to change,” the new cars will look more like plain old cafe cars on Amtrak trains than, say, a dimly lit place where everybody knows your name. In contrast to the last Metro-North bar cars, which had wallpaper designed to look like wood paneling (the cars were so old that many commuters mistook the wallpaper for actual wood), the new cars have light-colored walls and red floors.

Before one has too many, one might think the new cars feature too many ways to help passengers stay upright. There will be two kinds of stability bars for grabbing, according to the photos, which plainly indicate these things: “vertical handholds (straight),” and “horizontal handholds (straight).”

The New Haven line bar cars outlasted the bar cars on other Metro-North lines and on the Long Island Rail Road. In the 1960s, a New York, New Haven and Hartford bar car even had its own name, the 5:11 Gentlemen’s Bar Car. An article in The New York Times Magazine noted there were few women among the passengers.

The trains had curtains on the windows. The drinks were served at “a kitchenettelike enclosure” in the middle of the car, the article said. At the ends were “seats and tables for those who get there early enough and standing room for those who don’t.” (It was smoky; smoking was banned on Metro-North trains beginning in 1988.)

The photographs of the new bar cars showed no seats or tables, only “passenger counters (straight edge)” under the windows on one side of the car. And, of course, the “bar counter” itself.

The Connecticut Transportation Department plans to spend $200 million on the 60 New Haven line cars, which will be added to the 405 the state already owns, the oldest now five years old.

Amid current complaints about overcrowding, the cars will expand the New Haven line’s capacity by more than 6,000 passengers. The New Haven line carried 40.3 million passengers last year, a record, officials said, and a 2 percent increase over 2014. Ridership has risen about 12 percent over the last five years.

Terri Cronin, a vice chairwoman of the Connecticut Commuter Rail Council, an independent board appointed by Mr. Malloy and leaders of the state’s General Assembly, welcomed the return of the bar cars.

“I am so happy,” Ms. Cronin said. “We thought we’d never get them back. We’d hear rumors yes, we’d hear rumors no, but no one gave us a definitive answer.”

She said their disappearance left a void in commuters’ lives.

“It’s harder to connect with people” on trains that do not have bar cars, she said. “There are tons of things that happen in a bar car that are not about drinking. A lot of people got together and got married, got jobs, made business connections. There are people, their kids play softball together. They play golf together. I met some of my greatest friends in Connecticut through the bar car.”