Dig, Plant, Grow: Global Gardens Summer Harvest Celebration

In a world filled with conflict, military and otherwise, it’s good to remember what binds us: Everybody eats. And while food alone can’t foster understanding, tasting another country’s cuisine is one small way of sharing its spirit.

Hence the five Global Gardens — Italy, Ireland, China, Korea, the Caribbean — at the New York Botanical Garden. This weekend children can obtain passports for a horticultural and culinary tour in the Global Gardens Summer Harvest Celebration, part of a seasonal series of family programs titled Dig, Plant, Grow.

“You can see where your food comes from and make connections beyond what you see in a grocery store,” said Toby Adams, director of the Edible Academy, a new botanical garden educational initiative.

Children can take their passports, actually activity sheets, to be stamped at each of the Global Gardens, part of the two-acre Ruth Rea Howell Family Garden. The passports will ask them to complete small projects, like measuring the yardlong beans in the China Garden — are they really a yard long?

“For Korea, you have to find several plants and write out the names in the Korean characters,” Mr. Adams said. (The labels are bilingual.)

Along with exploring the plants, children will meet the Global Gardeners, community volunteers who tend plots representing their national heritages. But perhaps the biggest challenges will come in tasting signature foods the gardeners will prepare. Saturday’s fare will include a Swiss chard sauté (Italy); a zucchini sauté with fried plantains (Caribbean); and a bitter-melon stir-fry (China). Sunday will bring sautéed leeks and onions (Ireland) and kimchi pancakes (Korea).

So how do you get an average 8-year-old to try kimchi (fermented cabbage) or bitter melon? Mr. Adams said bitter-melon tea “makes coffee taste like Kool-Aid” by comparison.

But children love a dare, and “our experience is that if you have an opportunity to grow it — even in a one-off program — then the kids are willing to try it,” Mr. Adams explained.

Although no one will cultivate cabbage or bitter melon this weekend, children will work with other plants, possibly transplanting kohlrabi or basil, and harvesting a few vegetables, like carrots or cherry tomatoes. Consider it an adventure in exploring New York City roots.

(Saturday and Sunday, 1:30 to 5:30 p.m., at Bronx River Parkway, Exit 7W, and Fordham Road, the Bronx, 718-817-8700, nybg.org. Free with an all-garden pass: $20; $18 for students and 65+; $8 for ages 2 through 12; free for under 2 and members.) LAUREL GRAEBER

For Children

‘Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces’ (Friday, Sunday through Tuesday, and Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. From 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8 p.m. on Thursdays. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. Free with admission: $15; $12 for 65+; $7.50 for students; free for under 18 and members; pay what you wish on Thursdays from 5 to 8 p.m.

‘Bessie’s Big Shot’ (Friday through Thursday) If a cow can jump over the moon, why can’t she fly on a trapeze? In this production at the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater, the title character, a cow, longs to join the circus. Based on a show that used to tour on the City Parks Foundation PuppetMobile, this theatrical adventure, by Douglas Strich, Alexander Bartenieff and Bruce Cannon, follows Bessie as she follows her dreams. (Through Aug. 24.) Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an extra 2:30 p.m. performance on Wednesdays; Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m. At 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org. Performances are $10; $7 for under 12. Reservations required.

‘Brooklyn Block Lab’ (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) You can learn a lot from Brooklyn blocks, and that doesn’t mean just the borough’s streets. The Brooklyn Children’s Museum has opened its “Brooklyn Block Lab,” a new exhibition offering visitors a chance to build and explore with four different kinds of blocks: wooden units; Imagination Playground’s foam blocks; Kapla Planks, a Dutch flat wooden variety; and Magna-Tiles, which are equipped with magnets. And the museum is serious about the space as a lab: Educators will document how the interactions among children there help facilitate language development. (Through Aug. 31) The lab is open daily, except Monday, from 11 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (The museum is open from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; to 7 p.m. this Friday and next Thursday.) At 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, 718-735-4400, brooklynkids.org. Free with museum admission: $9; free for members and under 1; free to all on Thursdays from 3 to 5 p.m.; this Friday from 3 to 7 p.m.; and every third Thursday from 3 to 7 p.m.

Camp Kids ‘N Comedy Graduation Shows (Friday) The children who attend this summer camp haven’t been busy paddling canoes and hiking trails; they’ve been studying stand-up with professional New York comics and experienced teenage mentors from the Kids ‘N Comedy regular shows. Now the organization is opening its final camp performances to the public, in which participants ages 10 to 16 present their own routines. Profanity and vulgarity are not allowed, but cutting-edge humor is. At 2:30 p.m., Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, 212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com; $10, with a one-item (soda or food) minimum. Reservations required.

‘Chalk the Walk’ (Saturday) It isn’t often that grown-ups encourage children to draw on property. But on Saturday at the Museum of the City of New York, young visitors ages 6 to 12 will be following a trend exemplified by the museum’s show “City as Canvas: Graffiti Art From the Martin Wong Collection.” In this program they’ll gain inspiration from the works on view to create a colorful chalk artwork on the sidewalk in front of the museum. From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, 212-534-1672, mcny.org. Free with suggested museum admission: $10; $6 for students and 65+; $20 for families (with a maximum of two adults); free for ages 12 and under.

Children’s Museum of the Arts Free Art Island Outpost  (Saturday and Sunday) This island fun doesn’t require a flight to distant shores. The Children’s Museum of the Arts is offering another summer of weekend workshops on Governors Island, exploring a variety of crafts and materials. The theme this season is “Dreamscapes,” with projects in visual arts, theater games and filmmaking, all devoted to fantasy and adventure. (Through Sept. 28). From 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., outside Buildings 11 and 14; Nolan Park, Governors Island, 212-274-0986, cmany.org/summer; free.

‘City Splash’ (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Summer in New York can feel like a concrete oven, but there’s water, water everywhere in this annual installation at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan. Open during regular museum hours (weather permitting), “City Splash” invites little visitors to explore water and its properties. Activities include investigating bubbles; digging through ice for fossil reproductions; experimenting with buoyancy; and making music from containers filled with varying levels of water. (Through September.) From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; until 7 p.m. on Saturdays; open until 8 p.m. the first Friday of every month; Sussman Environmental Center, the Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org. Free with admission: $11; $7 for 65+; free for members and under 1.

Family Adventures: ‘Focusing on Nature’ (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) You can’t really see plants grow, but you can capture the experience through a technique like time-lapse photography. This program at the Everett Children’s Adventure Garden, part of the New York Botanical Garden, explores how cameras and other technology have influenced humans’ observations of the natural world. Activities will include observing and recording flowering patterns; potting sunflowers (and learning how to make a time-lapse video of one developing); and investigating early devices like the camera obscura. (Through Sept. 19.) Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; weekdays from 1:30 to 5:30 p.m.; Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, the Bronx, 718-817-8700, nybg.org. Free with an all-garden pass: $20; $18 for students and 65+; $8 for ages 2 through 12; free for under 2 and members.

Family Day at the Center for Architecture Foundation: ‘Building Bridges’ (Saturday) It’s hard to be a New York child and not be exposed to bridges. But seeing them from the back seat of a car won’t tell you how they work. This two-hour program at the Center for Architecture Foundation will introduce curious visitors ages 5 and older to the different types of bridges and how they support their loads. Then young participants can use their imaginations to design and build their own structures. From 11 a.m. to 1 p.m., and from 2 to 4 p.m., 536 LaGuardia Place, between Bleecker and West Third Streets, Greenwich Village, 212-358-6133, cfafoundation.org; $20 for a family of four; $10 for dual/family members; $5 for additional guests.

Field Station: Dinosaurs (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) It’s not unusual to see giants in the Meadowlands, but some of those attracting visitors to that area of New Jersey these days don’t wear helmets or play football. At Field Station: Dinosaurs, the 20-acre park filled with more than 30 animatronic prehistoric creatures — including a Tyrannosaurus rex, a stegosaurus and a 90-foot-long Argentinosaurus — the dinosaurs move when approached, and the three-quarter-mile trail offers other paleontology exhibits and a mock fossil dig. The park’s programs and shows now include a 23-minute 3-D movie, “Dinosaurs Alive!,” about dinosaur hunting in Mongolia and New Mexico. This weekend is also Puppetry Weekend, with interactive workshops in which children can make their own prehistoric creatures. From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., 1 Dinosaur Way (off Exit 15X of the New Jersey Turnpike), Laurel Hill Park, Secaucus, N.J., 855-999-9010, fieldstationdinosaurs.com. In advance, $20 to $35 (different prices include different perks); $17.50 to $30 for ages 3 through 11. At the box office, $25 to $40; $20 to $35 for children. Free for 2 and under. (Movie admission is $5 if bought separately.)

FringeJR and FringeHigh (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday and Thursday) On the fringes of the New York International Fringe Festival — not marginalized, just not for grown-ups — is FringeJR, a series of theatrical adventures for ages 5 to 12. The offerings tend to have the same offbeat sensibility as other Fringe productions, but nothing that would make young audiences (or their parents) blush. This weekend offers, on Sunday at noon, “Alienne: The Musical Adventures of My Little Martian,” a show about a teenager from Mars who would really like to be an Earth girl. On Friday and Tuesday at 2 p.m., and Thursday at 6 p.m., “And Then Came Tango” deals with a little one who has two fathers; this isn’t so unusual in today’s world, except that the whole family is made up of chinstrap penguins, and the story is based on real events at the Central Park Zoo. The final two children’s productions, from the company ExtraTeatro in Rome, are bilingual musicals that help children learn a little Italian: “My Monster Friend,” on Saturday at noon and Wednesday at 3:45 p.m., focuses on a mad scientist who creates a creature, à la Frankenstein, using a brain he ordered on the Internet. (Guess the brain’s country of origin.) And “Vagabond$,” Tuesday at 4 p.m., is about a twosome with a language barrier but a mutual embrace of showbiz. All four shows are at the Theater at the 14th Street Y, 344 East 14th Street, East Village. And teenagers are by no means left out: the festival also offers FringeHigh, shows recommended for adolescents, which tackle challenging themes. Full schedules and performance details are on the festival website, along with times when children can meet the casts at Fort FringeJR, a site for young fans. Tickets and more information can also be obtained at FringeCentral, the Clemente Soto Vélez Cultural Center, 114 Norfolk Street, near Rivington Street, Lower East Side, fringenyc.org. Shows are $18; $13 for 65+; FringeJr shows are $13 for children and can be bought in person only.

‘The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation’  (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.’s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Wednesday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com; $55 to $75; lap seats for ages 2 and under are $20, cash only, at the box office. V.I.P. seats, including a toy and other perks, are $99.50.

‘Genndy Tartakovsky’ (Saturday and Sunday) This Russian-born animator may not be a household name like Disney, but many children have probably seen his work. This weekend and next, the Paley Center for Media is celebrating his early career with screenings that include two of his most famous creations: Dexter, the boy genius turned mad scientist, and Dee Dee, Dexter’s perky airhead sister. On the menu are episodes of “Dexter’s Laboratory” and “Dexter & Dee Dee,” as well as the full-length “Samurai Jack: The Movie.” (Through Aug. 24.) From 12:10 to 2 p.m., 25 West 52nd Street, Manhattan, 212-621-6800, paleycenter.org; $10; $8 for students; $5 for under 14.

‘Great White Shark’ (Friday through Thursday) Seeing this new Imax film at the American Museum of Natural History may inspire fear — not for the safety of humans, but for that of sharks. Shown in both 2-D and 3-D, this documentary explores the fate of great white sharks, which have been driven to the brink of extinction by the market for shark fin soup. Filmed in waters off Mexico, New Zealand, South Africa and the California coast, the work captures sharks in their habitats, including a sequence in which great whites are shown breaching in 3-D. Hourly, from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 10:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. At Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org. Included in Museum Plus One admission (general admission and one Imax film or special exhibition): $27; $22 for students and 60+; $16 for ages 2 to 12. Member tickets: $13.50; $8.50 for children.

‘The Greek Monsters’  (Friday through Thursday) Construction crews aren’t all that have invaded the Onassis Cultural Center NY during its renovation; a host of mythological monsters have moved in, too. The center asked Beetroot, a Grecian design group, to install this exhibition of sculptures, bas-reliefs and paintings in the Olympic Tower atrium while work was going on. Children can meet characters like the Cyclops, Medusa, the Minotaur and Cerberus (the three-headed dog that guarded the underworld). (Through Aug. 24.) Daily from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., 645 Fifth Avenue, at 51st Street, onassisusa.org; free.

Harlem Family Day (Sunday) Get ready to dance! This celebration, part of SummerStage Kids and presented by Disney, will offer all kinds of music to move to, including Shine and the Moonbeams, who perform soul music for children; Moona Luna, an ensemble that offers snappy Latin tunes with bilingual lyrics; and Kojo Odu Roney & Friends, Kojo being a 10-year-old who’s an amazing little drummer boy. The crowd can also enjoy interactive music and dance workshops. From 4 to 7 p.m., Marcus Garvey Park, Madison Avenue and 122nd Street, East Harlem, cityparksfoundation.org/arts/summerstage-kids; free.

Hidden Harbor Tours: Port Newark (Saturday) Everyone sees ships in New York Harbor, but what do those vessels really do? The two-and-a-half-hour Hidden Harbor Tours, presented by the Working Harbor Committee and Circle Line Sightseeing Cruises, let families see how vessels figure in trade, bringing in goods from abroad. This tour focuses on the New Jersey waterfront and its giant container ports. On the return voyage, it passes the Sept. 11 Teardrop Memorial, the Robbins Reef Lighthouse and the Statue of Liberty. At 11 a.m. (boarding is at 10:30), Pier 83, West 42nd Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, 212-563-3200, workingharbor.org, circleline42.com; $40; $35 for 65+; $26 for ages 3 through 12; free for under 3.

‘ “I Have a Dream” and Other Wishes’ (Saturday) The Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. became a great orator partly because of his ability to draw on the drama and power of storytelling. On Saturday, Therese Folkes Plair, a performer who specializes in the narratives of people of African descent, will relate one of Dr. King’s most resonant stories: his vision of equality from the 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech in Washington. In addition to dramatizing excerpts from that work and other tales, the event will allow children to create their own books of dreams. At 11 a.m., Teardrop Park, accessible from Warren or Murray Street, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan, 212-267-9700, bpcparks.org; free.

‘Jazzed! The Changing Beat of 125th Street’  (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Young visitors may want to put on their dancing shoes before they visit this new show at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan. Then again, on certain days they can just wait and make a pair there. Presented in conjunction with the National Jazz Museum in Harlem, this exhibition revisits the Harlem Renaissance with displays dedicated to major jazz figures, highlighting Ella Fitzgerald, Bill (Bojangles) Robinson and Duke Ellington. Activities include song, dance, investigations of musical composition and craft workshops that include, yes, building your own tap shoes. Live jazz performances are also a regular part of the show. (Through Dec. 31.) From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; until 7 p.m. on Saturdays; open until 8 p.m. the first Friday of every month; Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmom.org. Free with admission: $11; $7 for 65+; free for members and under 1.

‘Kinetic Kids’ (Saturday) At this workshop, the members of the dance troupe Urban Bush Women will really be living up to their name: They will be teaching and performing among the greenery and blooms of the Garden of Hope in Brooklyn, one of the community gardens administered by the New York Restoration Project, which helps to reclaim unused city spaces. Their program, for children through the age of 12, is part of Youth Moves, a series the project created with the Brooklyn Academy of Music. It will help young participants investigate creative movement through dance games. At noon, Jane Bailey Memorial Garden, 327-329 Greene Avenue, near Franklin Avenue, Bedford-Stuyvesant, 212-333-2552, nyrp.org; free.

‘The Lightning Thief’ (Friday, and Sunday through Thursday) At first glance, Percy Jackson might seem like an average — maybe even below-average — kid. He struggles with dyslexia and impulse control, and school has never come easy. But as fans of Rick Riordan’s young-adult novel of the same title know, he’s actually the half-mortal son of a Greek god, who in this adventure must recover Zeus’ stolen lightning bolt. Joe Tracz and Rob Rokicki have adapted Mr. Riordan’s book into an hourlong musical, presented in Theatreworks USA’s annual Free Summer Theater Program. (Through next Friday.) Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m., with an additional performance this Tuesday at 6 p.m.; Sundays at 2 and 4:30 p.m., except this Sunday, when there is no 4:30 performance; Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, twusa.org. Reservations are accepted only for camps and youth programs and for those making a minimum $50 donation to the free summer theater program; one reserved seat for every $50 donated. Free tickets for the public are otherwise distributed first come first served, starting an hour before each performance, with a limit of four per adult per day.

‘The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe’  (Saturday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn’t two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That’s what Abigail Taylor-Sansom and her husband, Rockford Sansom, who recently joined the cast, are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater’s first production, le Clanché du Rand’s adaptation of C. S. Lewis’s classic novel. (The run is open-ended.) Saturdays at 11 a.m., St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com; $35.

Macy’s Fishing Clinics (Saturday and Sunday) Fishing tends to be enjoyable for almost everyone but the fish. Yet the species involved here can’t complain too much: They are all returned live to Prospect Park Lake. Open to eager anglers 15 and younger, these annual summer clinics, part of the series Pop-Up Audubon, involve not only fishing and safety instruction, but also an introduction to aquatic ecology. All equipment is provided. At 1 and 3 p.m., at two locations in Prospect Park: Wellhouse Drive, accessible from the Vanderbilt Street entrance, and White Levy Esplanade at Lakeside, reachable from the Parkside Avenue and Ocean Avenue entrance, Brooklyn, 718-287-3400, Ext. 303, prospectpark.org/pop-up-audubon; free.

MAD Studio Sunday (Sunday) Let other people have their backyard barbecues and beach bonanzas; the fun is all indoors this Sunday at the Museum of Arts and Design, which is inviting children 6 and older to take part in a party-themed workshop as part of its Studio Sundays program. The afternoon is inspired by the show “NYC Makers: The MAD Biennial,” which includes glittery decorations and a full nightclub environment. Children will make paper flowers and party favors while listening to festive tunes inspired by the show. From 2 to 4 p.m., 2 Columbus Circle, sixth floor, Manhattan, 212- 299-7777, madmuseum.org. Free with museum admission: $16; $14 for 65+; $12 for students; free for ages 18 and under and members.

‘Marvel Universe Live!’ (Friday through Sunday) Those Marvel Comics superheroes — and many of the villains, too — are leaping off the page and onto the stage in this live-action production, which centers on the battle over the pieces of the Cosmic Cube, a device that confers unbelievable power. In an effects-laden spectacle, the forces of good — heroes like the Avengers, Spider-Man and Wolverine — work to prevent the cube fragments from being usurped by Loki and a host of Marvel baddies, including the Green Goblin, Doctor Octopus and Electro. Friday at 1 and 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 3 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m. and 3 p.m.; Barclays Center, 620 Atlantic Avenue, at Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com; barclayscenter.com; $25 to $180.

MoMA Art Lab: Movement  (Friday through Thursday) It’s easy to think of art as monumental and fixed, but many creative works move, or at least appear to. This interactive space for children at the Museum of Modern Art is devoted to the idea of motion, whether it’s in a mobile, a moving picture, a performance or the artist’s hand applying paint. Activities in the lab relate to different works in the museum’s collection: Preschoolers can build structures incorporating movement; older children can try their hands at stop-motion animation. (Through Aug. 31.) Daily from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; to 6:30 p.m. on Thursdays and Fridays; Lewis B. and Dorothy Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan, 212-708-9400, moma.org/artlab. Free with museum admission: $25; $18 for 65+; $14 for students; free for ages 16 and under.

‘Monday Night Magic’  (Monday) This show bills itself as the longest-running Off Broadway entertainment of its kind. (It opened in 1997.) Every Monday a different group of magicians appears (or disappears, as the case may be), offering illusions, sleight of hand and an occasional thrill, like knife throwing. The performers planned for this week are Jen Slaw, Harrison Greenbaum and Michael Chaut. At 8 p.m., Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, at Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, 800-551-4767, hollywoodpop.com/mondaynightmagic; $66.50 to $72.50; $10 discounts available on phone orders with the codes HPG-Prem or HPG-VIP.

‘Peace, Love, and Cupcakes: The Musical’  (Saturday and Sunday) Vital Theater Company’s latest children’s musical, revived but at a new theater, takes place on one of the most treacherous, complicated and unrelenting battlefields to which America has sent its young: middle school. An attempt to attract audiences as old as 12, the show draws on the first novel in a series by Sheryl Berk and her young daughter, Carrie Berk. Though not always plausible, the production, written by Rick Hip-Flores, offers a brisk, entertaining and well-acted hour as it explores what happens to the misfit heroine, Kylie Carson, when she starts a cupcake club that threatens to become even more popular than the reigning mean girl at school. (Through Aug. 31.) Saturdays and Sundays at 4 p.m., Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 10 West 64th Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org; $30; $40 for premium seats.

Peppa Pig at the Scholastic Store (Saturday) Some little piggies go to market, but this one is heading to a bookstore. Peppa Pig, a beloved British character and star of her own animated television series on Nick Jr., is making a celebrity appearance at the Scholastic Store. The event will include a screening of Peppa’s new DVD, “The Balloon Ride”; activity sheets to take home; and an opportunity for preschool fans to pose for pictures with Peppa. (Families should take their own cameras.) R.S.V.P. is requested. At 10 a.m. (the 11 a.m. screening is sold out), 557 Broadway, near Prince Street, SoHo, 212-343-6166, scholastic.com/RSVP.

‘Pinkalicious, the Musical’ (Saturday and Sunday) That rosy little girl is back. This long-running production of Elizabeth and Victoria Kann’s adaptation of their children’s book, from Vital Theater Company, is now at the Majorie S. Deane Little Theater. The pink-obsessed title character finds out that sometimes being in the pink can be too much of a good thing — especially when eating too many pink cupcakes has turned her pink from head to toe. John Gregor wrote the score and some of the lyrics. (Through Aug. 31.) Saturdays and Sundays at 1 p.m., 10 West 64th Street, Manhattan, 212-579-0528, vitaltheatre.org; $30; $40 for premium seats.

Puppetworks  (Saturday and Sunday) Animals of all kinds are frolicking onstage — with musical accompaniment — in the latest show from Puppetworks, whose artistic director, Nicolas Coppola, has adapted three famous tales for his marionette theater: “Peter & the Wolf,” with Prokofiev’s score; “The Frog Prince,” with music from Kabalevsky’s “The Comedians”; and “The Ugly Duckling,” which features shadow puppets. This is the last weekend for all three, which are being performed in just an hour. At 12:30 and 2:30 p.m., 338 Sixth Avenue, at Fourth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 718-965-3391, puppetworks.org; $9; $8 for children. Reservations are recommended.

RiverFlicks Family Fridays: ‘Smurfs 2’ (Friday) You may not be able to go to drive-in movies anymore, but the RiverFlicks series in Hudson River Park has something even better: walk-in movies. The films in its Family Fridays, all rated PG, are screened under the stars on Pier 46, and even the popcorn is free. This week’s film is the animated “Smurfs 2,” and it features some bad guys called the Naughties, which should indicate to parents that there’s nothing very violent here to worry about. And children can renew their acquaintance with the heroic small blue folk of the title. At dusk, usually about 8:30 p.m., Charles Street and the Hudson River, West Village, 212-627-2121, hudsonriverpark.org.

Stories at the Statue of Hans Christian Andersen  (Saturday) Not everything that blooms perennially in Central Park is a flower or a tree. Storytelling also returns there each summer, as the city’s Parks and Recreation Department, the Central Park Conservancy and the Hans Christian Andersen Storytelling Center bring narrative performers to Andersen’s statue every Saturday. The series, for ages 6 and older, continues this Saturday with Andersen’s tales “The Most Incredible Thing” and “Ole Shut Eye.” At 11 a.m., inside the park at 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue, rain or shine, hcastorycenter.org; free.

SummerStage Kids International Contemporary Circus Festival (Tuesday through Thursday) Beings far more welcome than bats, fireflies (and yes, mosquitoes) will be flying through the air over Marcus Garvey Park next week. It’s time for the City Parks Foundation’s annual circus festival, which focuses on aerialists, acrobats and artistry, not animals. All the evenings will feature Circus to Go by the Big Apple Circus and Paris the Hiphop Juggler, as well as several other acts. A highlight on Tuesday and Wednesday will be SummerStage Kids’ first commissioned circus piece, “Circles,” inspired by the poet Rumi’s work “Zero Circle” and created in part by Loki Circus Theater and the hip-hop performer Akim Funk Buddha. Both nights will offer a puppetmaking workshop by the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater. On Thursday families can also enjoy inspired circus as theater in “Perfect Catch: A Throw-mantic Comedy” and the antics of the Acrobatic Conundrum. From 7 to 9:30 p.m., Madison Avenue and 122nd Street, East Harlem, cityparksfoundation.org/arts/summerstage-kids; free.

Sunset EcoCruises to the Harbor Heron Islands (Sunday) Herons, egrets and ibises are New Yorkers too, and about 3,000 reside on the islands around the city harbor. This series of cruises from New York City Audubon visits the birds’ lairs and provides binoculars for close-up viewing. Gabriel Willow, a naturalist and storyteller, narrates the adventures, conducted via New York Water Taxi. This weekend’s trip, the last of the season, heads to Jamaica Bay, home to great cormorants as well as many other species. From 6 to 9 p.m., Pier 17, South Street Seaport, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, 212-742-1969, nywatertaxi.com/tours/audubon; $65; $55 for ages 3 through 12; free for under 3.

‘A Voyage Through Jewish History’  (Sunday through Thursday) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children’s Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah’s tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca’s camels, playing the strings on David’s harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. Through Aug. 31, the museum will also present “Summer Safety 2,” an exhibit consisting of a road course that children can walk or drive through (using pedal go-carts), in which they’ll learn how to navigate city streets safely. Usual museum hours are Mondays through Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; until 5:30 p.m. on Sundays; 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum; $13; $10 for 65+; free for under 2.

Wave Hill Programs  (Saturday, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) This public garden in the Bronx offers many ways for the youngest visitors to commune with nature, including art, storytelling and, this week, a bat walk. This Saturday and Sunday, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Wave Hill House, the weekend family art project, “Flutter With the Butterflies,” will involve observing and sketching these colorful winged residents and then making a butterfly hat to zoom around the grounds in. On Wednesday, from 7 to 8:45 p.m., children over 10 are invited to join adults in an Evening Nature Walk and Talk: “From Bats to Bugs,” in which the naturalist Paul Keim will lead a search of the night sky for bats and teach how these winged predators, along with frogs, crickets and katydids, use sound to orient themselves and communicate. (Participants are advised to take flashlights.) On Thursday at 2 p.m., Stories in the Garden welcomes visitors ages 3 to 6 to hear tales in the verdant shade (or inside Wave Hill House if it rains). This week’s story program, “Antics,” will be devoted to reading books about creatures doing silly things. It will include a singalong. At Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx, 718-549-3200, wavehill.org. The bat walk, which has limited space, requires registration online, by phone (at Ext. 251) or on-site; it costs $18; $10 for members. The art project and stories are free with garden admission: $8; $4 for students and 65+; $2 for children over 6; free for members; free to all on Saturday until noon.

‘What’s Up, Doc? The Animation Art of Chuck Jones’ (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) A whole lot of great cartoons, that’s what’s up. Chuck Jones (1912-2002), for many years one of the creative geniuses at Warner Bros., helped give life and indelible personalities to sassy characters like Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck, Wile E. Coyote, the Road Runner and many more. This new exhibition at the Museum of the Moving Image salutes his artistry with sketches, story boards, animation cels and photographs. Through Oct. 4, the Drop-In Moving Image Studio each Saturday, from noon to 5 p.m., will feature “Animation Takeover,” helping children older than 7 use Jones’s ideas to create their own projects, from flipbooks to short animated videos. And every Saturday and Sunday during the show’s run, at 1 p.m., the museum will present programs of Chuck Jones screenings. This weekend “‘For Scent-imental Reasons’ and Other Cartoons” will star — no surprise — that great romantic skunk, Pepé Le Pew, along with Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and various others in assorted adventures. (Through Jan. 19.) Hours: Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Wednesdays and Thursdays, 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, 718-784-0077, movingimage.us. Free with admission: $12; $9 for ages 65+ and students; $6 for 3 to 12; free for under 3 and members. Screenings are first come first served, though members can reserve seats by phone. LAUREL GRAEBER