Get Up & Go! Family Adventure Race

Don’t just sit there. Do something!

That’s the motivating principle behind the Get Up & Go! Family Adventure Race, which the City Parks Foundation has planned for a season when some children feel more inclined to curl up and stay. But in addition to luring students away from smartphones and PlayStations during summer vacation, the race, on Saturday in Conference House Park on Staten Island, requires parents to sweat a little, too.

“We came up with this as a way of engaging parents as mentors and also to have them do some exercises,” said Mike Silverman, the foundation’s director of sports. After the inaugural event, he added, “We had kids telling their parents, ‘Hey, get off the couch, and do this with me.’ ”

The race, now in its third year, aims to be so much fun that neither generation will want to sit it out. More an obstacle course than a speed challenge, it consists of a dozen activity stations, above, for teams made up of one parent or guardian and up to two children. (The children must belong to the same age division: 8 through 10, or 11 through 13.)

“We combined the popularity of adult obstacle races,” Mr. Silverman said, citing the Reebok Spartan Races and Tough Mudder, “with ‘The Amazing Race,’ where you have clues.”

Each team registering (there is a small fee) receives a map of the stations. “They’re on a trail, but you still have to look for them,” Mr. Silverman said. Some demand simple exercises, like jumping rope for a specified interval, while others incorporate sports elements, like hurdles and basketball free throws. One just poses a question, and another is labeled simply “Surprise” on the map. “It’s an adventure race, so we have to add to the adventure,” Mr. Silverman said.

When participants have completed all stations — they’re allotted an hour — they dash to the end, where the first three teams finishing in each age division receive medals, and everyone gets a certificate.

Although the 2015 race is in only one borough, children who can’t make it there on Saturday can still join Get Up & Go!, a new summer fitness initiative for ages 6 through 10. That free program runs in select parks citywide through Aug. 20 — plenty of time for all those small couch potatoes to get cooking.

(Race starts at 10 a.m. for ages 8 through 10; 11 a.m. for ages 11 through 13; Hylan Boulevard and Satterlee Street, Tottenville, 718-760-6999, cityparksfoundation.org/sports/kids-fitness. Online registration is preferred; on-site is permitted as space allows.)

For Children

‘Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces’ (Friday, Sunday through Tuesday, and Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, 212-423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org.

‘Brooklyn Sewers: What’s Up Down There?’ (Wednesday through Sunday) When it comes to subterranean infrastructure projects, New York City’s subway system seems to get all the attention. But a group of teenage curators at the Brooklyn Historical Society would like to introduce you to another underground marvel: Brooklyn’s sewer system, one of the city’s oldest and most extensive infrastructure projects. This exhibition explores engineering conundrums and courtroom battles and tells the story of the sewer system through photographs, drawings and maps. Noon to 5 p.m., Brooklyn Historical Society, 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org. Camp Kids ‘N Comedy Graduation Shows (Friday) The children who attend this summer camp haven’t been busy paddling canoes and hiking trails; they’ve been studying stand-up with professional New York comics and experienced teenage mentors from the Kids ‘N Comedy regular shows. Now the organization is opening its final camp performances to the public, in which participants ages 10 through 17 present their own routines. Profanity and vulgarity are not allowed, but cutting-edge humor is expected. At noon for the graduates ages 10 through 13; at 2:30 p.m. for those 14 through 17, Gotham Comedy Club, 208 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, 212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com; telephone reservations required.

Children’s Museum of the Arts Free Art Island Outpost  (Saturday and Sunday) This island fun doesn’t require a flight to distant shores. The Children’s Museum of the Arts is offering another summer of free weekend workshops on Governors Island, exploring a variety of crafts and materials. This season’s programs will be devoted to making works that reflect the importance of nature and parks, and the human role in both. Children will also recycle and reuse something that often blights nature — trash — by turning it into art. From 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., outside Building 14, Nolan Park, 212-274-0986, cmany.org/schoolsandcommunity/free-summer-programs.

Children’s Potions & Planting Tea Parties (Saturday) If children haven’t received their invitations yet to study at Hogwarts, this may be the next-best thing. Gallow Green, the rooftop restaurant at the McKittrick Hotel, is reviving this series, welcoming children ages 6 through 11 to learn all about herbal potions and plantings and to pot some greenery to take home. An English tea — with pink lemonade for young guests — will be served, and each participant may bring a favorite stuffed animal or doll. (Each adult attending must be accompanied by at least one and no more than three children; each child should bring a recyclable bottle for concoctions.) Also on Aug. 1 (sold out) and Sept. 12. At 10 a.m., 542 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 212-564-1662, events.mckittrickhotel.com/childrenspotionsandplanting. Reservations required.

‘Connected Worlds’ (Friday through Thursday) Human choices and actions have an impact on the world’s ecosystems, but people usually can’t see the effects as they happen. That isn’t true in this new permanent exhibition in the renovated Great Hall of the New York Hall of Science. Consisting of huge screens (one is 38 feet tall), the show depicts six interconnected environments with a shared water supply. With the help of technology that responds to gestures, “Connected Worlds” allows children to use simple motions to plant, harvest, cut trees, create clouds and make other changes in the projected landscapes — and see how the native flora and fauna fare. 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org.

‘Doubleworld’  (Saturday) Children in New York face a nonstop barrage of photographs — on billboards and buses, in magazines and on computer and cellphone screens. How are they to make sense of these images? This free family day at the New Museum, offered in conjunction with the exhibition “Sarah Charlesworth: Doubleworld,” investigates how photography affects our perceptions of the world. Children between the ages of 4 and 12 can make their own works using different mediums and examine how photography conveys messages through color, framing and scale. From 10 a.m. to 12 p.m., New Museum, 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, 212-219-1222, newmuseum.org.

´Family Day´ Dance Party  (Sunday) This afternoon dance party brings new meaning to the term “club kids.” While parents mingle, children up to 12 years old can groove to the high-energy tunes of the Southern duo Sugar Free Allstars and marvel at Hopalong Andrew, a one-man band and former New York City park ranger, as he performs his folksy music with a guitar, banjo, harmonica and suitcase drum. From 4 p.m. to 7 p.m., Clove Lakes Park, Staten Island; cityparksfoundation.org.

Field Station: Dinosaurs (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Just as a Tyrannosaurus rex, velociraptors and other prehistoric creatures have thundered into movie theaters, they’re heading out of New Jersey. Field Station: Dinosaurs, the 20-acre theme park filled with more than 30 animatronic species — including a T. rex, a stegosaurus and a 90-foot-long Argentinosaurus — is losing its Secaucus home and is looking for another site. But the dinosaurs, which move when approached, are in residence for one final summer, and there’s still time to catch the attractions, which include a three-quarter-mile trail with other paleontology exhibits; a movie, “Walking with Dinosaurs: Prehistoric Planet 3D”; and Paleontologists’ Laboratory, a recent addition that allows young visitors to dig for fossils and take home a small bag of genuine artifacts. From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., 1 Dinosaur Way (off Exit 15X of the New Jersey Turnpike), Laurel Hill Park, Secaucus, N.J., 855-999-9010, fieldstationdinosaurs.com.

Fishing Clinics (Saturday and Sunday) Fishing tends to be enjoyable for almost everyone but the fish. Yet the species involved here can’t complain too much: They are all returned live to Prospect Park Lake in Brooklyn. Open to eager anglers 15 and younger, these annual free summer clinics, part of the Pop-Up Audubon series, involve not only fishing and safety instruction, but also an introduction to aquatic ecology. All equipment is provided, but supplies are limited. At 1 and 3 p.m., first come first served, at two locations in Prospect Park: the Peninsula, reachable from the Vanderbilt Street entrance, where Macy’s Fishing Clinics are offered, and White Levy Esplanade at Lakeside, reachable from the Parkside Avenue and Ocean Avenue entrance, where the Prospect Park Alliance operates the program. (Through Aug. 30.) 718-287-3400, prospectpark.org/pop-up-audubon.

‘Frolic!’ at the Children’s Museum of Manhattan (Friday through Thursday) You’re never too young to rock — and this space proves it. A new pop-up installation at the museum, “Frolic!” uses rock music and a themed décor to stimulate sensory play and learning in visitors ages 5 and under. In addition to a stage, a pretend ticket booth and ’70s-style props — including a Volkswagen mini-van to climb into — the 1,500-square-foot area has programs of workshops and live performances to help little ones get into the groove. (Through Dec. 31.) The Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, 212-721-1223, cmomorg.

‘The Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation’  (Friday through Sunday, and Thursday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday at 11 a.m. and 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; Thursday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com.

‘Goldilocks & the 3 Bears’ (Saturday and Sunday) Yes, it’s that unwelcome blond visitor again, stirring things up at the bears’ house and trying out chairs, bowls of porridge and beds. Robert Southey’s folk tale is told in an updated version by Jack Kaplan, with hand puppets by Nicolas Coppola, artistic director of Puppetworks. At 12:30 and 2:30 p.m., Puppetworks, 338 Sixth Avenue, at Fourth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, 718-965-3391, puppetworks.org. Reservations advised.

‘The Hunger Games: The Exhibition’ (Friday through Thursday) What enterprising 12- or 13-year-old wouldn’t like to foment a little rebellion? Such a visitor can do so vicariously at this new attraction at Discovery Times Square, stepping into the role of Katniss Everdeen, the teenage heroine of “The Hunger Games” and the ultimate leader of the resistance against her nation’s totalitarian government. Based on the Lionsgate film adaptations of Suzanne Collins’s novels, the show includes costumes and artifacts from the movies, as well as re-creations of Katniss’s journey and interactive, role-playing elements like a gamesmaker’s table and a chance to learn and practice stunt choreography. (Through Jan. 3.) Fridays, Saturdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Sundays through Wednesdays, 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com, thehungergamesexhibition.com.

‘Jack and the Beanstalk’ (Friday through Thursday) Many plants grow in Central Park, so why not a beanstalk? This one sprouts indoors at the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater, which has revived Michael Alogna’s adaptation of the classic fairy tale about Jack, the Giant (here named Milford), Dolly the Cow and the famous Golden Goose. Bruce Cannon, the theater’s artistic director, has revised the script, and a human actor now stars in the show along with the company’s hand-built marionettes. Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an additional 2:30 p.m. show on Wednesday; Saturday and Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. (Some shows are sold out.) Reservations required. 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park; 212-988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts.

‘Jean-Michel Cousteau’s Secret Ocean’ (Friday through Thursday) Ever encounter a goby or a blenny? How about a Christmas tree worm? These small marine species, often unnoticed and uncelebrated, are among the stars of this new Imax movie at the American Museum of Natural History. Filmed by Jean-Michel Cousteau, son of the ocean explorer Jacques Cousteau, and Holly Lohuis, a marine biologist, the film captures 30 species that are among the tiniest to inhabit the seas. (Through Jan. 10.) Hourly from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with 2-D screenings at 11:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.; all other screenings are 3-D. Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org.

‘LC Kids’  (Saturday) While puppet shows by the Gabriadze Theater often feature themes and topics that might not be suitable for children — like “Ramona,” a tragic story of two trains now at the Clark Studio Theater — the theater’s puppet-building workshop led by the storyteller and puppeteer Erin Orr is geared for a younger demographic. Families can work together to build puppet characters and learn about the art of expression through puppetry. At 11 a.m., Samuels Studio, Samuel B. & David Rose Building, 165 West 65th Street, 212.721.6500, Kids.LincolnCenter.org.

‘The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe’  (Saturday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn’t two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That’s what Chris Boerner and Erin Layton, who recently stepped into the roles, are attempting in the Off Broadway Family Theater’s first production, le Clanché du Rand’s adaptation of C. S. Lewis’s classic novel. (The run is open-ended and continues on Saturdays.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com.

MoMA Art Lab: Places and Spaces (Friday through Thursday) What’s an art lab? These interactive spaces for children at the Museum of Modern Art, free with museum admission, help introduce the institution’s collection through activities related to a theme: this time it’s Places and Spaces. Young visitors can design, draw and build as they explore spaces both real and imagined — landscapes, cityscapes, seascapes — as they appear in Modern art. (Through Aug. 31.) The Lewis B. and Dorothy Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan; 212-708-9805, moma.org/momaartlab.

New-York Historical Society Pop-Up Exhibition  (Saturday and Sunday) Governors Island, used by both the Americans and the British during the American Revolution, is the site of this exhibition, assembled by teenagers, which uses the museum’s collection of historical documents and artifacts to illustrate the lives of soldiers and civilians during the Revolutionary War. Teenagers will offer activities and tours of the exhibition, held on weekends through Sept. 27, at the stately House 18 near Nolan Park. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Nolan Park, Governors Island, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org/exhibitions; free.

‘Pattern Wizardry’ (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) You don’t have to enroll at Hogwarts to experience the fun of being a sorcerer’s apprentice. These days the Brooklyn Children’s Museum is providing the flowing capes and lots of instruction. Best of all, the magic is real. It’s at “Pattern Wizardry,” an exhibition that teaches that the complex universe isn’t really random. The world is based on patterns, and the show invites children to investigate examples from nature, science, culture and art. (Through Sept. 6.) 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, 718-735-4400, brooklynkids.org.

‘Pier Kids: Birds of Prey’  (Sunday) These birds of prey, like many New Yorkers, can be fierce, but they are rarely seen up close in the city. But this weekend on the Pier 6 lawns, Volunteers for Wildlife is giving kids a chance to learn about raptors and will have a number of them on hand. After the birds take off, Private Picassos will host art activities, and the Uni project will open an outdoor pop-up reading room. At 11 a.m., Pier 6, Brooklyn Bridge Park, brooklynbridgepark.org/events.

‘Pinkalicious, the Musical’ (Saturday and Sunday) That rosy little girl is back at yet another location. This long-running production of Elizabeth and Victoria Kann’s adaptation of their children’s book, from Vital Theater Company, is playing through Aug. 30 at Culture Project. The pink-obsessed title character finds out that sometimes being in the pink can be too much of a good thing — especially when eating too many pink cupcakes turns her pink from head to toe. John Gregor wrote the score and some of the lyrics.

‘Princess Phooey’ (Friday, Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) What if Sleeping Beauty’s court were a lot like middle school — with the beauty as one of the mean girls? That’s the clever conceit of this musical by Lisa Diana Shapiro and Eric Rockwell, which Tada! Youth Theater has wisely decided to revive. The title character is actually Princess Ermengarde, the younger sister of the royal who has just awakened from a century of sleep. Ermengarde doesn’t care for satin gowns, glittery jewels or princes (charming or otherwise), and doesn’t fit in at all. But if this production is even half as good as the 2008 original, the audience will be rooting for her. (Through Aug. 1.) Weekdays at noon and 2 p.m.; Saturdays at 2 and 4 p.m.; 15 West 28th Street, Manhattan, 212-252-1619, Ext. 5, tadatheater.com. Some shows are sold out.

‘Skippyjon Jones Snow What’ (Friday, and Sunday through Thursday) Skippyjon Jones, a Siamese cat, has always thought that he’s really a Chihuahua; the question this time is whether he can also convince himself that he’s a fairy tale prince. This production, part of Theatreworks USA’s annual free summer theater program, adapts the latest entry in Judy Schachner’s book series about the conflicted Skippyjon into an hourlong musical for children 4 and older. A wry sendup of the “Snow White” fairy tale by Kevin Del Aguila and Eli Bolin, who did Theatreworks’s first Skippyjon adaptation, this production is every bit as clever, comical and boisterous. (Through Aug. 7.) Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m., with an additional show this Thursday at 6 p.m.; this Sunday at 2 and 4:30 p.m.; Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, between Bleecker and Hudson Streets, West Village, twusa.org. Free tickets are distributed first come first served, starting an hour before each performance, with a limit of four per adult per day. (Reservations are accepted only for camps and youth programs and for those donating to the free summer theater program; details are on the website.)

‘A Splash of Technicolor: Exploring Color in Cartoons, 1930-1954’ (Wednesday and next Friday) The characters are likely to be as colorful as the hues in this screening program of short animated films, part of the Museum of Modern Art’s celebration of the centennial of the invention of Technicolor. The program, selected by the Pixar animator Ralph Eggleston, who will introduce it on Wednesday, promises to introduce friendly faces like Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck and the Aristo-Cat to a new generation of viewers. The directors include Chuck Jones, Joseph Barbera and William Hanna. At 1:30 p.m., Lewis B. and Dorothy Cullman Education and Research Building, 4 West 54th Street, Manhattan, 212-708-9480, moma.org/film.

Stories at the Statue of Hans Christian Andersen  (Saturday) Not everything that blooms perennially in Central Park is a flower or a tree. Storytelling also returns there each summer, as the city’s Parks and Recreation Department, the Central Park Conservancy and the Hans Christian Andersen Storytelling Center bring narrative performers to Andersen’s statue every Saturday. The free series, for ages 6 and older, continues this Saturday with Bill Gordh, who will offer a complete program of Andersen stories, accompanied by music. At 11 a.m., inside the park at 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue, rain or shine, hcastorycenter.org.

Summer in the Square (Thursday) That’s Union Square Park in Manhattan, which has more than playgrounds and lush grass to lure children each summer. This free Thursday series from the Union Square Partnership offers family activities and entertainment through Aug. 13. It includes Yoga Story Time, from the yoga studio Karma Kids; a concert or show (this week’s performer is Shira & Friends, children’s rockers whose interactive concerts mix original tunes with classics); story time with the Strand Bookstore; and exercise with the 14th Street Y and Pop Fit Kids. And a Children’s Activity Pavilion, with crafts, books, games — and a morning visit with live animals from Art Farm in the City — is open all day. From 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. (the activity pavilion is open until 6), South Plaza and South Lawn, off East 14th Street. Complete schedule: summerinthesquare.com.

Sunset Wednesday at Wave Hill  (Wednesday) Wave Hill, a 28-acre public garden and cultural center in the Bronx, is hosting an afternoon of events in the great outdoors. At 2 p.m., educators share their favorite stories about reptiles with interactive readings, singalongs and puppetry. At 6:15 p.m., children 10 and older can join the naturalist Gabriel Willow on a sunset walk through the gardens and learn about its flora and fauna. The evening ends with a free hourlong concert of Caribbean music and dance by Milteri Tucker & Bombazo Dance Co. at 7 p.m. Wave Hill, West 249th Street and Independence Avenue, Riverdale, the Bronx, 718-549-3200, wavehill.org.

‘A Taste of Magic’ (Friday and Saturday) Would you like a side of sleight of hand with that burger? This show, developed by Magnets, a collective of local magicians, brings wizardry to the dinner table. Taking place at various restaurants, the presentation includes acts like mind reading and card tricks, which professionals perform close-up for guests; there’s also a cabaret-style show. And the admission price includes a full meal. (Through Sept. 25.) Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 5 and 8 p.m. (the Saturday shows are sold out); Docks Oyster Bar & Seafood Grill, 633 Third Avenue, at 40th Street, Manhattan, atasteofmagicnyc.com.

‘A Voyage Through Jewish History’  (Monday through Thursday) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children’s Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah’s tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca’s camels, playing the strings on David’s harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. The museum also offers “Summer Safety 3,” an installation through Sept. 3 that uses a special course to teach children how to avoid pedestrian dangers. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, 718-907-8833, jcm.museum. LAUREL GRAEBER AND JONATHAN WOLFE

OAKLAND, Calif. — The kid had all the moves and a clever dribble. He was lightning quick to the seams of the defense. You could see his cockiness and conviction in the way he carried himself against older boys with more developed bodies. Yes, that kid, Kyrie Irving, was going places.

But he was just a 15-year-old sophomore, not yet 6 feet tall, and skinny enough to hide behind a lamp post. Who could possibly have known that within four years he would be going to the N.B.A. to compete against grown men?

This was in early 2008, Irving putting on a show in a high school gymnasium in Montclair, N.J. That night he was on the losing side, the local private school, which was playing against the crosstown public. He was also, by far, the best player.

By his junior year, Irving was at one of those parochial high schools with a national ranking, prepping for his one-and-done season at Duke before the Cleveland Cavaliers anointed him the No. 1 pick of the 2011 N.B.A. draft.

Irving was soon the best thing to see on a bad team while missing 65 games over his first three seasons. He had gained entry into a growing club and had also become part of a league conundrum and a vexing case study.

Now more than ever, the basketball world wants to know: Is the N.B.A. breaking its young?

“I’ve had that conversation with my friends, and I don’t have the answers,” Luke Walton, a Golden State Warriors assistant coach, said Saturday, less than 24 hours after Irving was declared out of the league finals with a fractured left kneecap that was operated on Saturday in Cleveland.

Walton grew up in the household of his father, Bill, whose congenital foot problems more or less drained the promise and prime of a potential career great. He knows about misfortune, pain and how human frailty actually predates the Internet.

“I mean, they used to play in Chuck Taylor sneakers and I couldn’t even walk in them,” he said after the Warriors, having won Game 1 in overtime, prepared for Game 2 on Sunday night. “But, yeah, now you have 260-pound guys running faster, cutting harder, and that probably puts more pressure on the joints.”

LeBron James, who practically defines the basketball athleticism of a new era, seems to have the durability of a Marvel Comics Avenger while — similar to Miami with Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh — teammates like Irving and Kevin Love have limped away from the fray, leaving James, like D.C.’s Superman, to carry the Cavs against the Warriors’ deep roster.

As Walton said, basketball coaches, players and certainly journalists are not doctors or scientists.

Nor, for that matter, are sports commissioners. Debilitating injuries in recent seasons to Derrick Rose, Russell Westbrook, Kevin Durant and Rajon Rondo and to a host of other young and, for basketball, middle-aged players have made the injury question a delicate one for the new commissioner, Adam Silver, to satisfactorily address.

He tried on Thursday, saying: “Our data doesn’t go back that far at least to a point that it’s really reliable in terms of games missed. But at least over a short period of time we don’t see, even versus last year — games missed is not greater. In other words, the injury data isn’t showing that this was a worse year in terms of injuries than last year.”

Like a zealous education reformer, Silver is enamored of that four-letter crutch word — data — and applied it to several questions at his prefinals news conference. And while it is true that data is preferable to guesswork, there is also common sense, beginning with the obvious need to study injuries as a generational phenomenon, not as a year-to-year or recent trend.

Walton agreed that most tall players in his father’s day, even in their Chuck Taylors, lumbered into the post and were not consistently engaged in the athletic endeavors of the freakishly skilled big men who now prowl the perimeter.

Players have become better conditioned. Defenses have adjusted with tactical aggression. Court dimensions remain unchanged. And into this cramped, virile mass of muscle comes a tide of 19-year-olds, their bodies already taxed by years of A.A.U. showcases and suddenly thrust into an 82-game schedule before they are fully developed.

How much of a toll does that take at one point or another?

Added to a physically taxing, more pressurized game are enhanced financial and commercial incentives to push through the pain. Hence, Irving’s 44 minutes of action in Game 1 on a knee that had been plagued by tendinitis all spring.

David Blatt, the Cavaliers’ coach, said Irving was given a clean bill of health and did not have a restriction on his playing time. Who knows why the knee gave out as he drove against the Warriors’ Klay Thompson in overtime? There was even a question of how.

After the game, Blatt said he believed there had been no contact. On Saturday, having seen the replay, he added there appeared to have been knee-to-knee contact. That’s just bad luck, which cannot be legislated out of a sport.

But Blatt also said that injuries seemed to be more frequent in the N.B.A. than overseas, where he long coached and where teams generally play less.

“Certainly, the heavy schedule that we play could be seen as a reason for the frequency of some of the injuries that we see, particularly the way that the game is going with the level of athleticism, speed and strength,” he said.

He would not mind a schedule with about 10 fewer games. James is on record with a preference for 16 fewer, or 66, spread over the same amount of time.

As vice president of the players’ union, and the most leveraged player of his time and perhaps all time, James might help effect change if he really believes long-term livelihoods are being increasingly endangered. If owners and network executives care about the players and their product, they should listen and be willing to sacrifice.

In the meantime, James has Game 2 to worry about and at least two more after that. Given the supporting cast he has left, indestructibility may not be enough.

Somehow, she missed “Coney Island Baby,” the 1962 doo-wop hit by the Excellents. But Robin Jaffee Frank, who organized “Coney Island: Visions of an American Dreamland, 1861-2008,” has not missed much. A sprawling evocation of Brooklyn’s most famous — and sometimes infamous — locale installed at the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, this clamorous multimedia exhibition mixes fine art, pop culture and history, juxtaposing shimmering beachscapes and gaudy carousel horses, Sunday comics and classic photographs, surreal paintings and vintage posters.

True, there’s no salt air or boardwalk, but there is a turn-of-the-century gambling wheel — pick a number, any number — and a piece of mural from the Spook-A-Rama ride (it belongs to Harvey Fierstein, along with several less lurid, puppetlike ball-toss targets). Video monitors placed throughout the museum’s renovated galleries show movie clips from periods ranging from the silent era to the 21st century.

The concatenation of objects and sounds lends the show some of the raucous energy of the place itself. It’s hard to imagine another exhibition bringing together Samuel S. Carr’s charming 1897 oil “Beach Scene,” with straw-hatted children playing in the sand, and Weegee’s startling 1944 photograph of Luna Park devastated by fire, an expanse of rubble spread below the framework of the roller coaster.

The show proceeds chronologically, with painters and photographers documenting the irresistible recreations offered by Coney Island as it goes from quiet resort to brassy pleasure dome to derelict, sometimes dangerous urban relic. Eventually, Carr’s well-heeled visitors in top hats give way to lounging teenagers in hoodies, and his prim 19th-century damsels under their parasols evolve into fleshy 1930s trollops falling out of their bathing suits.

They in turn become curvy onlookers wearing halter tops as a diver hovers dramatically over green water in “Coney Island Pier,” a 1995 canvas by the onetime street artist Daze.

Artists have been drawing Coney Island from its beginnings, and Coney Island has been drawing filmmakers from the dawn of motion pictures. Movies, of course, seem best suited to capturing its wild rides and flashing lights, although a painting like Joseph Stella’s breathtaking abstraction “Battle of Lights, Coney Island, Mardi Gras,” with its powerful spikes and dizzying swirls, makes you question that assumption.

Still, movies have a lively presence in the Wadsworth exhibition, which includes snippets of Roscoe Arbuckle’s 1917 silent comedy “Fatty at Coney Island” and Woody Allen’s “Annie Hall,” from 1977, in which Alvy Singer’s childhood home under the roller coaster provides a comic metaphor for the trials and tribulations of growing up Woody. Claudette Colbert and Ray Milland flirt on the roller coaster in “The Gilded Lily,” from 1935.

But Coney Island isn’t always amusing on film. Thomas Edison’s camera recorded the disturbing 1903 electrocution of Topsy the elephant. And Darren Aronofsky’s dark 2000 drama, “Requiem for a Dream,” lends its title to the exhibition’s final section, devoted to the twilight years of Coney Island as an entertainment mecca.

That twilight was not unwarranted. It resulted in part from the deterioration of storied, not necessarily well-built attractions like Steeplechase Park, but also from an increasing distaste for the crass exploitation of people with medical conditions and congenital deformities in “freak” shows.

In its heyday, Coney Island was probably the world capital of gawking, and if you define gawking as intense looking, it’s what artists do. At Coney Island, they study the human figure massed into crowds (Marie Roberts comments wittily in her 2005 painting “A Congress of Curious Peoples”) or entwined on the beach (several such couples are captured in photographs by Morris Engel and Homer Page). They revel in the color and the chaos of manufactured amusements, and they marvel at the proximity of thrills to chills (Arnold Mesches offers a monster’s head opposite a giant ice cream cone in “Anomie 1991: Winged Victory”).

Reginald Marsh, that relentless painter of New York lowlife night life, can’t stay away from Coney Island — turning an expectant crowd into a rhythmic assemblage of arms and legs in “Adults 10 Cents, Children 5 Cents” (1936), turning a carousel ride into a stampede in “Wooden Horses” (1936) and turning the sidewalk outside a side show into a visual encyclopedia of gaping in “Pip and Flip” (1932).

Pip and Flip were actually Elvira and Jenny Snow, Georgia twins born with microcephaly, marketed in side shows as exotic “pinheads.” They turn up more than once at the Wadsworth, in Marsh’s painting and in a post card.

They are not the only subjects claiming the attention of painters and photographers alike. In another instance, the jam-packed beach photographed in black-and-white by Weegee in 1940 is duplicated by Red Grooms more than half a century later in pop-art colors and multilayered paper. Visitors are invited to elaborate further on the theme by adding themselves to the composition. And whether or not they stop to play with the colored pencils and magnetic paper dolls, they will almost certainly see their response to this show in the rapt onlookers at a fireworks display photographed by Bruce Davidson in 1962 — Coney Island babies all.

The title “Marvel’s Agent Carter” may create a misleading impression for a show set in 1946 New York and featuring automats and fedoras. This latest product of the Marvel comics-adventure factory, an eight-episode series starting on Tuesday, has less in common with its sister ABC show, “Marvel’s Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,” than it does with some of the more active British mysteries on PBS. Viewers with long memories may even be reminded of “Remember WENN,” the serving of World War II-era schmaltz that was AMC’s first scripted show.

That’s not a knock on “Agent Carter,” which is a fairly entertaining conglomeration of nostalgia, postwar intrigue, comic-book science fiction and screwball comedy (with frequent interludes of bone-crunching violence).

The first thing we see is a scene from the Marvel film “Captain America: The First Avenger,” one of the primary sources for the new series. Agent Peggy Carter (played by Hayley Atwell in all her Marvel-universe iterations, including the new series) listens as the Captain, her superhero boyfriend, crashes into the Arctic ice to save New York from a nuclear barbecue.

We know the Captain will be found and revived half a century later, but Carter doesn’t. So the show takes place in his shadow, with Carter fending off lesser men and listening to an awful radio serial about her dead boyfriend’s exploits. That’s largely what the show’s about: Carter, now relegated to a desk job in her secret spy-science agency, proving she’s more than just the former girlfriend of an action hero.

That the show would embrace the theme of postwar feminism is unsurprising, probably even inevitable, but not particularly dramatic in its own right. When Carter serves coffee to get into a meeting to which she’s not invited or runs to prevent a man from opening a door for her, the humor is slight and familiar.

But the writers have also played with the theme in larger, potentially more interesting ways. The two men most willing to accept Carter as an equal are both fighting their own limitations: Her fellow agent Sousa (Enver Gjokaj) lost a leg in combat, while her right-hand man in her clandestine adventures, Jarvis (James D’Arcy), is a comically repressed butler. Jarvis is excited by her battles with shadowy villains and wants in on the action, but just as the men in her agency look down on her, Carter looks down on him.

Mr. D’Arcy is amusing as Jarvis, and so is Lyndsy Fonseca (“Nikita”) as Carter’s pal, a wisecracking waitress. The early episodes also feature guest spots by reliable scene stealers like Ray Wise and Dominic Cooper. They all help “Agent Carter” go down easily, though you may wish that it were just a little bit more fun, more dashing, more stylish.

One issue is Ms. Atwell, who looks great in the period costumes and hairstyles and doesn’t do anything wrong, but is a bit too much like Carter: ferociously capable and awfully tightly wound. That’s fine for a character, but the actress could stand to loosen up a little.