This past weekend, two of the most famous comic book heroes of all time punched each other senseless to big box office success. This week, over on the small screen, two of their cousins are pairing off in a less contentious fashion.

On Monday night, the title hero on “The Flash” will leap across networks, racing from his CW series to appear on CBS’s “Supergirl.” Getting these heroes to meet is the result of careful world-building or, in this case, worlds-building. “The Flash” has introduced a favorite DC Comics concept to television: “the multiverse,” an endless array of parallel universes. Flash recently visited Earth 2, a world in which the bachelor hero was married; the man who raised him was a jazz singer, not a police detective; and enemies were allies. Compared to that, a jump to Supergirl’s world seems like a joy ride.

“If that hadn’t worked with Flash and Earth 2, I’m not so sure we would be able to say this is the way we can connect Flash to Supergirl,” said Greg Berlanti, executive producer of both shows.

Characters from one television series have appeared on another often enough to no longer be a novelty. But crossing the network boundary has been comparatively rare. (The difficulty was mitigated somewhat in this case, as the CW is co-owned by CBS and Warner Bros. and the shows share an executive producer.) One successful exchange was in 1998, when lawyers from “The Practice,” on ABC, met those from “Ally McBeal,” on Fox. Both series came from the creator and executive producer David E. Kelley.

The audience demographics for CBS (generally older) and the CW (generally younger) mean that both shows stand to gain from a crossover. “Supergirl” soared upon its premiere last fall with almost 13 million viewers but has been in steady decline. Its most recent episode had just under six million viewers — fewer than many of its neighbors on CBS. On the other hand, the first season of “The Flash” was the CW’s highest-rated show in 2014, averaging close to four million viewers. The episode may bring new viewers to each show.

The groundwork for Monday’s meeting can be traced back to the CW series “Arrow,” which began in 2012. That series follows the adventures of Oliver Queen, an urban vigilante known as Green Arrow in the comics, and its success helped open the door to more DC heroes on television. “I don’t think my partners at DC knew five years ago that it would grow,” Mr. Berlanti said. “If the interest had not been there on the part of fans, if people hadn’t been as supportive as they’ve been, none of this would happen.”

“Arrow” introduced Barry Allen, the crime scene investigator who would become Flash, in its second season, and he soon graduated to his own series. Flash opened up the Arrow universe to the exploration of superpowers, time travel, alternate realities and parallel worlds. Supergirl’s Earth has Superman and some other heroes, but no Flash or Green Arrow.

For those keeping score at home, the DC film universe, where Batman and Superman just battled it out, is separate from the DC TV universe, which connects the CW’s “Arrow,” “The Flash” and “Legends of Tomorrow” to “Constantine” (which ran for one season on NBC), “Supergirl” (on CBS) and “Vixen” (an animated series on the CW’s streaming platform). “Gotham,” on Fox, which chronicles the formative years of Bruce Wayne and some of his future adversaries, is its own world.

In contrast, Marvel’s network TV shows (“Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.” and “Agent Carter”) and its Netflix series (“Daredevil,” “Jessica Jones” and the coming “Luke Cage”) are part of the world presented in the films from Marvel Studios, which this spring will include Captain America fighting Iron Man in “Captain America: Civil War.”

Comic book fans are intimately familiar with this type of minutia, but will keeping track of who’s who on what Earth be too challenging for viewers? “Only if we make it complicated,” said Geoff Johns, the chief creative officer at DC Entertainment. He is a fan of the multiverse concept. “The possibilities are endless,” he said. “There are no rules.” But he knows it is a balancing act. “Mythology is amazing, but the character and story have to come before that. If it’s just about mythology, it’s going to become confusing, like the worst comics are.”

For Mr. Berlanti, the shows work best when they celebrate what fans love about reading comic books. “When you picked up a comic, you didn’t know which character might show up,” he said. “It introduced a character to a new reader or refined what you loved about the character in the past. It helped you enjoy two great tastes that taste great together.”

All dates are subject to change.

AUDRIE & DAISY A 15-year-old girl in California and a 14-year-old girl in Missouri both went to parties, drank too much and were the victims of group sexual assaults by boys they knew. But the pain didn’t stop there. Their lives were made more miserable by cyberbullying and the distribution of videos and photographs. Bonni Cohen and Jon Shenk tell the two stories in a documentary that The Hollywood Reporter described as “wrenching to watch but told with clarity and guts.” Both girls attempted suicide; one succeeded.

CHRONIC As long as he’s on the job, as a nurse working with terminally ill patients in their homes, David (Tim Roth) is strong, confident and involved. Away from work, he’s a mess, a chronic depressive who needs help. With Sarah Sutherland (daughter of Kiefer and granddaughter of Donald). Written and directed by Michel Franco, who won the award for best screenplay at Cannes in 2015.

CLOSET MONSTER Oscar, an unhappy gay teenager who witnessed a hate crime when he was a little boy, will do anything to get out of his small town and away from his seriously screwed-up father. A talking hamster and a vivid imagination may help. Connor Jessup stars in this drama, written and directed by Stephen Dunn. It won best Canadian feature film at the Toronto International Film Festival.

DIRTY 30 For Kate’s 30th birthday, she and two female friends — each unhappy in her own way — plan a small, tasteful party that turns out to be neither. A comedy starring Mamrie Hart, Hannah Hart and Grace Helbig. Andrew Bush directed.

THE DRESSMAKER Kate Winslet rocks some glamorous 1950s couture and cigarette holders in this revenge comedy. She’s a successful woman who goes back to her unsophisticated small town. Judy Davis is her mentally unstable mother. And Liam Hemsworth is the handsome hometown farmer. Directed by Jocelyn Moorhouse.

THE FREE WORLD When a woman covered in blood stumbles into your workplace, yes, you should help her, but maybe don’t take her home. Mo, an ex-con (who really was innocent), is trying to turn his life around but learns how complicated good deeds can become. Boyd Holbrook and Elisabeth Moss star, with Octavia Spencer as Mo’s boss. Jason Lew wrote and directed this drama, his feature debut.

GENERATION STARTUP Six recent college graduates go entrepreneurial, and this documentary follows them for 17 months. Directed by Cynthia Wade and Cheryl Miller Houser.

GOAT A fraternity-hazing drama about a 19-year-old (Ben Schnetzer) experiencing hell week in a particularly awful way. When it screened at Sundance, Vanity Fair found it both “brutal and harrowing” but with “something deeply sympathetic and sorrowful at work.” Nick Jonas and James Franco star. Andrew Neel directed.

I.T. Pierce Brosnan plays a rich guy with a smart house in a thriller whose villain is the information-technology guy. James Frecheville plays the young consultant who knows way too many passwords and uses his skills to threaten the boss’s wife, daughter and business. John Moore (“A Good Day to Die Hard”) directed.

THE JAZZ LOFT ACCORDING TO W. EUGENE SMITH What would midcentury America have done without Life magazine? In the late 1950s and early ’60s, Mr. Smith, a Life photographer, turned his camera and his tape recorder on a rundown apartment in New York’s flower district and captured jazz greats like Thelonious Monk and Hall Overton, just hanging. Sara Fishko directed this documentary.

THE LOVERS AND THE DESPOT In the 1950s, they were the Brad and Angelina of South Korea’s film industry, but their romance ended. In the ’70s, the North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il, a movie fanatic, kidnapped Choi Eun-hee, the actress, and Shin Sang-ok, the filmmaker, and imprisoned them for years, forcing them to make films together. A stranger-than-fiction documentary from Rob Cannan and Ross Adam.

THE MAGNIFICENT SEVEN Yul Brynner, Steve McQueen, Eli Wallach and company starred in the original 1960 western. In this remake, Denzel Washington, Ethan Hawke, Chris Pratt, Byung-hun Lee, Manuel Garcia-Rulfo, Martin Sensmeier and Vincent D’Onofrio ride into town as bad guys hired by a small village’s citizens to save them from tyranny. Directed by Antoine Fuqua.

MY BLIND BROTHER Sophie Goodhart’s rom-com-dram is a love triangle with complications. Boy who feels guilty about his brother’s blindness meets girl who feels guilty about her boyfriend’s death, but the girl is soon dating the blind brother, too. With Nick Kroll, Adam Scott and Jenny Slate.

QUEEN OF KATWE How a Ugandan girl, an elementary-school dropout selling corn on the streets, became a chess champion. Madina Nalwanga plays Phiona Mutesi, the real-life prodigy. David Oyelowo is the athlete turned missionary who teaches her the game and tells her, “Sometimes the place you are used to is not the place you belong.” Lupita Nyong’o is Phiona’s mother, a widow who says of career and future, “Don’t think about such things.” Mira Nair directed this drama, filmed in Uganda and South Africa.

THE RUINS OF LIFTA They stand near the western entrance to Jerusalem: dozens of stone houses that were once part of Lifta, a Palestinian-Arab village whose population was driven out by Israelis in the 1948 war — the only one of those villages, in fact, that wasn’t destroyed or hasn’t been repopulated. In the face of a plan to demolish the homes and replace them with luxury villas, Lifta is the setting in this documentary for a reconsideration of the Holocaust and the Nakba (Palestinian exile). Yacoub Odeh, who was forced out of Lifta in his youth, and Menachem Daum, an Orthodox Jewish man from Brooklyn whose mother was a Holocaust survivor, are the key figures in this work directed by Mr. Daum and Oren Rudavsky.

SEED: THE UNTOLD STORY  A full 94 percent of the seed varieties known on earth vanished during the last century, according to this documentary about the sad state of the planet’s food supply. “I see myself as Noah,” one activist says. The directors Jon Betz and Taggart Siegel argue that it’s a battle of good versus evil, with Monsanto, Dow and other purveyors of industrial agriculture as the villains.

STORKS In the future, storks don’t deliver babies; they drop off packages for a huge global retailer. But in this animated adventure, one bird (voiced by Andy Samberg) accidentally turns on the old Baby Making Machine, and now he and his best friend have to get the resulting pink-haired infant girl to her home. Heartwarming moral: It’s never too late to find your family. The voice cast also includes Jennifer Aniston, Kelsey Grammer, Keegan-Michael Key and Jordan Peele.

SAND STORM As if Jalila didn’t have enough problems, she has to plan a beautiful wedding celebration for her husband and his young second bride. And now her daughter is having a very forbidden affair with a university student. From Israel, a drama, set in the polygamous Bedouin culture, that won the world cinema grand jury prize at Sundance. Directed by Elite Zexer.

THARLO The title character is an isolated Tibetan shepherd with a ponytail who can quote Mao word for word but still needs an identification card. In Pema Tseden’s black-and-white fish-out-of-water drama, Tharlo (Shide Nyima) is forced to go into the nearby town and interact with other human beings. He meets a woman.

THE HURT BUSINESS An inside look at mixed martial arts, complete with big money, doping scandals and life-destroying brain injuries. Vlad Yudin directed this documentary, which features the sport’s major names, including Ronda Rousey, Jon Jones and Chuck Liddell.

AMANDA KNOX A young woman from Seattle studying in Italy, Ms. Knox was found guilty of killing her roommate in Perugia, and spent four years in prison before her conviction was overturned in a complicated and lengthy case. This documentary, directed by Rod Blackhurst and Brian McGinn, takes a hard look at its subject.

AMERICAN HONEY Andrea Arnold’s drama, starring Shia LaBeouf and Sasha Lane, won the jury prize at this year’s Cannes Film Festival. A young woman joins a lost group of young people who try to survive by selling magazines door to door on a road trip that doubles as an examination of a slice of America.

AMONG THE BELIEVERS “They train kids to be suicide bombers here!” a distraught man shouts outside a school during a demonstration in Pakistan. This documentary, from Hemal Trivedi and Mohammed Ali Naqvi, takes us inside the school to prove that claim. The school system is run by Maulana Abdul Aziz, a cleric and ISIS supporter whose goal is to impose Shariah law around the globe.

COMING THROUGH THE RYE In 1969, an unpopular boy runs away from boarding school to find J. D. Salinger, the reclusive author whose “Catcher in the Rye” hero, Holden Caulfield, is the boy’s fictional soul mate. Starring Alex Wolff, Stefania Owen (as the townie who gives him a lift) and Chris Cooper as Salinger. Jim Sadwith directed.

DANNY SAYS The Ramones sang about him. Danny Fields, a music-industry connector extraordinaire, is the subject of this documentary by Brendan Toller. Mr. Fields also discovered or worked with the Doors, Iggy Pop, Cream, Judy Collins and Lou Reed.

DEEPWATER HORIZON In April 2010, an oil rig drilling for BP exploded in the Gulf of Mexico, off the coast of Louisiana, resulting in a major environmental disaster and the deaths of 11 people. Peter Berg directed this drama about what happened that day, starring Mark Wahlberg, Dylan O’Brien and Kate Hudson.

DENIAL In one of her books, a historian (Rachel Weisz) calls a man (Timothy Spall) a Holocaust denier, and he sues her for libel. In the British judicial system, the burden of proof is on the defendant, so winning the case means she must show the flaws in his arguments. Based on a 2000 court case and directed by Mick Jackson (“Temple Grandin”). The screenplay is by the playwright David Hare.

DO NOT RESIST In small-town America, police forces behave like military enforcers, with an “us versus them” mentality. That’s the argument made by Craig Atkinson’s film, which was named best documentary at the Tribeca Film Festival this year. The movie travels from Ferguson, Mo., to congressional hearings in Washington and includes the sight of a law-enforcement trainer advocating “righteous violence.”

FLOCK OF DUDES A coming-of-age story about a man in his 30s. Chris D’Elia (from the series “Undateable” and “Whitney”) stars in this ensemble comedy as a bachelor who decides the only way to grow up, finally, is to dump his emotionally immature best pals. With Skylar Astin, Bryan Greenberg and Hannah Simone. Bob Castrone directed.

GIRL ASLEEP From Australia, the bittersweet trauma of a 14-year-old (Bethany Whitmore) turning 15 at a new school in a new suburb in the 1970s. After the mean girls at her birthday party serenade her with a song insulting her inadequate breast development, Greta retreats into dark fantasy. Directed by Rosemary Myers.

HARRY & SNOWMAN One day in 1956, a Dutch immigrant named Harry de Leyer went to a Pennsylvania auction and bought a plow horse for $80, saving the animal from slaughter. That horse, Snowman, turned out to have hidden talents and went on to win the triple crown of show jumping. Ron Davis’s documentary tells the story, with the help of Mr. de Leyer, now in his late 80s.

LONG WAY NORTH From France, an animated feature set in 19th-century Russia. A young rich girl in St. Petersburg is distraught when her grandfather, an Arctic explorer, doesn’t come home from his latest trip. She sets out on her own adventure to learn what happened to his ship. Rémi Chayé directed.

 A MAN CALLED OVE The grumpiest man in a tenants’ association makes a friend when new neighbors back their car into his mailbox. Rolf Lassgard and Bahar Pars star. Hannes Holm wrote and directed, based on a best-selling Swedish novel.

MASTERMINDS Zach Galifianakis in an action comedy about a painfully naïve armored-car driver with bad hair, who, against all odds, pulls off a $17 million heist. Afterward, everything that could go wrong does. With Owen Wilson, Jason Sudeikis and Kristen Wiig. Jared Hess (“Napoleon Dynamite”) directed.

MISS PEREGRINE’S HOME FOR PECULIAR CHILDREN Tim Burton turns his dark talents to a fantasy adventure involving time travel, invisible monsters and, yes, a peculiar child or two. The large cast includes Chris O’Dowd, Eva Green, Asa Butterfield and Samuel L. Jackson.

M. S. DHONI: THE UNTOLD STORY Batsman, wicketkeeper and favorite son. From India, a how-he-got-there biopic about the cricket star, played by Sushant Singh Rajput. Neeraj Pandey directed.

PASSAGE TO MARS If you’re going to rehearse for a trip to Mars, go spend some time in the Arctic. Jean-Christophe Jeauffre directed this documentary-adventure hybrid about a six-month NASA mission that stretched to two years. Zachary Quinto and Charlotte Rampling offer voice talent; Buzz Aldrin plays himself.

BEING 17 From France and André Téchiné, a drama about adolescent sexual awakening. In a scenic town in the Pyrénées, two high school boys who have to live together temporarily appear to develop an immediate mutual dislike, but something more is going on. With Kacey Mottet-Klein and Corentin Fila. At the Berlin Film Festival, Variety called this the 73-year-old Mr. Téchiné’s “most youthful film yet.”

BETTER OFF SINGLE Just how disheartening is the New York dating scene, even for a good-looking guy like Charlie (Aaron Tveit)? In this comedy, it drives him to hallucinations and strange fantasies. Maybe he shouldn’t have quit his job and broken up with his girlfriend on the same day. With Abby Elliott, Lewis Black and Annaleigh Ashford. Benjamin Cox wrote and directed, making his feature-film debut.

THE BIRTH OF A NATION Nate Parker wrote, directed and stars as Nat Turner, who in Virginia in 1831 led the deadliest slave rebellion in American history. The film won two awards at the Sundance Film Festival but has since become embroiled in controversy over a rape case involving Mr. Parker, who was acquitted. With Armie Hammer, Colman Domingo, Penelope Ann Miller and Gabrielle Union.

BLUE JAY They were sweethearts in high school; now they’re dissatisfied adults who run into each other again in their small California hometown. Sarah Paulson and Mark Duplass star in this romantic drama for grown-ups. Alex Lehmann directed.

THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN Dear, depressed, recently divorced Rachel (Emily Blunt) can’t help envying the perfect couple whose house she passes every day on her commute. Until one day, she happens to see something really disturbing. Tate Taylor directed this thriller, based on Paula Hawkins’s best-selling novel. With Justin Theroux and Rebecca Ferguson.

THE GREASY STRANGLER It’s a Los Angeles slasher film. It’s a comedy with flatulence. It involves a father and son who run disco tours. It may be the strangest film of the year. Jim Hosking directed.

THE GREAT GILLY HOPKINS A family film about a girl shuttled among foster homes, and her grand plan to find her biological mother. Starring Sophie Nélisse (as Gilly), Kathy Bates and Octavia Spencer. Based on a young adult novel and directed by Stephen Herek.

THE LATE BLOOMER So there’s this perfectly happy sex therapist with one biological peculiarity. Although he’s 30, he has never gone through puberty. Doctors can induce the process, but it has to be sped up to take weeks instead of years. That’s a lot of comic acne, lust, voice-cracking and mood swings for one guy to deal with. The cast includes Johnny Simmons (as the title character), Brittany Snow, Jane Lynch and J. K. Simmons. Kevin Pollak directed.

LONDONTOWN Jonathan Rhys Meyers picks up a guitar, this time as Joe Strummer, frontman of the Clash. Daniel Huttlestone plays a 14-year-old in 1970s London whose life is changed by the band. Derrick Borte directed this coming-of-age drama, which also stars Natascha McElhone and Dougray Scott.

MIDDLE SCHOOL: THE WORST YEARS OF MY LIFE And no wonder. Rafe’s new school has a principal who says things like “Creativity has no place” here and a code of conduct as thick as “War and Peace.” Steve Carr directed this comedy, starring Griffin Gluck, Lauren Graham, Rob Riggle and Andrew Daly.

MIRZYA An action romance from India. Rakeysh Omprakash Mehra directed this contemporary story of star-crossed lovers, which takes place both in the real world and in a fantastical, folkloric parallel universe.

NEWTOWN In December, it will have been four years since a disturbed young man walked into Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., and shot 26 people dead, 20 of them small children. Kim A. Snyder’s documentary talks to the people left behind.

THANK YOU FOR YOUR SERVICE Tom Donahue directed this documentary, which looks at the mental health needs of American veterans. The film follows four struggling Iraq war vets and includes appearances by the actor Gary Sinise, a veterans’ advocate; Robert Gates, the former secretary of defense; and Sebastian Junger, the author and filmmaker (“Restrepo”).

THEO WHO LIVED In 2012, Theo Padnos was an American journalist abroad who just couldn’t seem to get an assignment, even though he spoke fluent Arabic. He decided to sneak into Syria to report on refugee-camp conditions but was kidnapped by Islamic militants, tortured and held for 22 months. In this documentary, written and directed by David Schisgall, Mr. Padnos returns to the Middle East to retrace his steps and explain how he survived, mentally and physically.

THE 13TH The 13th Amendment, which abolished slavery, that is. Ava DuVernay follows “Selma” with this documentary consideration of mass incarceration in the United States and the for-profit prison industry. Ms. DuVernay interviews Senator Cory Booker, Angela Davis and Henry Louis Gates Jr., among others.

37 Kitty Genovese’s murder in Queens in 1964 has been the subject of a host of books, articles and films because 37 neighbors supposedly heard but did nothing to help. (That report, initially in The New York Times, was later debunked.) Christina Brucato plays Genovese in this drama, but the focus is on the bystanders and their daily crises. With Samira Wiley, Michael Potts and Maria Dizzia. Puk Grasten directed.

VOYAGE OF TIME: LIFE’S JOURNEY Terrence Malick has already looked at the history of the cosmos, in that long psychedelic sequence in “The Tree of Life,” but here he goes again. Cate Blanchett narrates this 90-minute documentary, which starts with the Big Bang and ends in the future. (A 40-minute Imax version, narrated by Brad Pitt, is also being released.)

TOWER America’s first mass school shooting took place under Lyndon B. Johnson’s watch. Fifty years ago,at the University of Texas at Austin, a gunman opened fire from the top of a clock tower, and 16 died that day. Keith Maitland directed this animated (yes) documentary about the people who were affected and the people who helped them. The film won multiple awards at South by Southwest this year.

MASCOTS Christopher Guest has shown us the absurdities in dog shows, community theater, folk music and movie awards. Now he and his merry band of actors take on the fuzzy world of sports-team mascots. The cast includes Jane Lynch, Fred Willard, Bob Balaban, Jennifer Coolidge, Ed Begley Jr. and Parker Posey.

THE ACCOUNTANT Ben Affleck stars in this thriller as a cognitively brilliant but obsessive small-town C.P.A. (he’s on the autism spectrum) who secretly freelances for drug cartels, assassins and other evil types. The Treasury Department is just about to bring him down, and a client’s clerk (Anna Kendrick) is asking, “Who are you?” J. K. Simmons (an Oscar winner for “Whiplash”) plays the fed on his tail. Gavin O’Connor directed.

AQUARIUS Sonia Braga stars as a retired music critic who refuses to leave her apartment building in Recife, Brazil, even though she’s the last resident. Her decision to battle the developers turns her formerly quiet life as a widow into something like a tension-filled thriller. From Brazil, directed by Kleber Mendonça Filho (“Neighboring Sounds”).

THE BAD KIDS If you’re a student at Black Rock Continuation High School in the Mojave Desert in California, it’s because you’re already in trouble and in danger of dropping out. This vérité-style documentary, directed by Keith Fulton and Lou Pepe, follows the principal and three students through a year of struggles.

CERTAIN WOMEN Three women in Montana — a lawyer, a law student and a house hunter — try to manage their lives. Laura Dern, Kristen Stewart and Michelle Williams star. Kelly Reichardt directed.

CHRISTINE In 1974, Christine Chubbuck was 29 and doing well in her career as a television talk-show host in Sarasota, Fla., but unhappy with her empty personal life. One morning, she announced “another first” for the station and shot herself in the head on live TV. Rebecca Hall stars as Chubbuck, with Michael C. Hall, Tracy Letts and John Cullum. Antonio Campos directed.

THE DAVID DANCE Danger Dave’s radio fans love his witty banter on “Gay Talk” in Buffalo. What they don’t know is that off the air, this poised celebrity is soft-spoken and insecure, and his divorced sister wants him to play father to the Brazilian orphan she’s adopting. Don Scimé, who plays Dave, wrote the New York International Fringe Festival play on which the film is based. Aprill Winney directed.

DESIERTO Gael García Bernal stars in this thriller about a group of unarmed people trying to cross the border from Mexico into the United States. But shots ring out. They’re being stalked by an American vigilante who wants to take illegal immigration into his own hands, and in the desert there’s pretty much no place to hide. Jonás Cuarón directed.

KEVIN HART: WHAT NOW? Mr. Hart’s stand-up comedy, filmed at a football stadium in Philadelphia.

LITTLE SISTER Colleen is a dignified young nun now, but not long ago she was a wild goth. She’s thrown back into that old life when her mother sends for her. Her brother (Keith Poulson) is home from Iraq, but Mom (Ally Sheedy) doesn’t mention how damaged he is. Zach Clark wrote and directed this dark comic drama. Addison Timlin stars as Colleen.

MISS HOKUSAI From Japan, an animated feminist coming-of-age story. O-Ei Hokusai quietly draws amazing portraits inside her art studio, while her father takes credit for her work. The Hollywood Reporter called it “gorgeous — a small poetic wonder.” Directed by Keiichi Hara.

ORDINARY WORLD Billie Joe Armstrong (uh-huh, the Green Day guy) stars as a former punk rocker living his worst nightmare: a quotidian life in Queens as a husband, father and hardware-store employee. He hopes a blow-it-all-out 40th-birthday party will shake things up. With Selma Blair, Judy Greer and Fred Armisen. Lee Kirk wrote and directed.

SKY LADDER: THE ART OF CAI GUO-QIANG Mr. Cai’s idea of art is a six-mile-long gunpowder fuse coming out of the Great Wall of China or a 1,750-foot-tall ladder of fire. Kevin Macdonald (“The Last King of Scotland”) directed this documentary, which looks at the artist and his work.

AMERICAN PASTORAL It’s been a good year so far for Philip Roth dramas (“Indignation”). Ewan McGregor stars (and makes his directorial debut) in this adaptation of Mr. Roth’s Pulitzer Prize-winning novel about a suburban businessman, husband and father whose life falls apart in 1968. That’s when his daughter (Dakota Fanning), involved in Vietnam War protests, bombs a post office, killing a bystander. With Jennifer Connelly, Uzo Aduba and David Strathairn.

ASPERGER’S ARE US A group of four pals, all on the autism spectrum, band together to create their own comedy team. Now they’re doing a milestone show. Alex Lehmann directed this documentary.

AUTUMN LIGHTS An American photographer (Guy Kent) in a remote part of Iceland meets a mysterious European couple in this drama. Angad Aulakh directed.

CREEPY A horror film from Japan, directed by Kiyoshi Kurosawa, in which a former detective is called back to work on a very peculiar case. It may have something to do with his odd new neighbor, whose daughter announces one day, “This man is not my father.”

FIRE AT SEA Lampedusa, a Mediterranean island, has become a transit point for immigrants escaping Africa and the Middle East — and the site of tragedy after tragedy. Gianfranco Rosi’s documentary, which won the top prize at the Berlin Film Festival, contrasts a 12-year-old boy’s ordinary life there with the humanitarian agonies around him.

THE HANDMAIDEN From South Korea, a drama about a Japanese woman in the 1930s who hires the wrong maid. This devious one is part of a plot to cheat her wealthy employer out of her fortune. Park Chan-wook directed a cast led by Kim Min-hee and Kim Tae-ri.

IN A VALLEY OF VIOLENCE Ethan Hawke stars in this revenge western as a drifter headed for Mexico who takes a shortcut and finds himself in an old mining town, nearly abandoned now and run by thugs. The marshal’s son (James Ransone) is a troublemaker, and the marshal is John Travolta. Ti West wrote and directed.

JACK REACHER: NEVER GO BACK Tom Cruise returns as Reacher, the super-aggressive former Army cop who wanders the country with a scowl and scary weapons, making life miserable for bad guys. This time he’s suspected of a long-ago homicide. Cobie Smulders is an Army major accused of espionage. Edward Zwick, who worked with Mr. Cruise on “The Last Samurai,” is the director.

KEEPING UP WITH THE JONESES Not being outshone by the neighbors was always hard, even before the title phrase came into common use a century ago. But in this action comedy from Greg Mottola, one suburban couple (Zach Galifianakis and Isla Fisher) really have a challenge. Their new, ridiculously glamorous and sophisticated neighbors are Don Draper and Wonder Woman (Jon Hamm and Gal Gadot). But when Couple No. 1 learns that the newcomers are actually spies, peer envy is the least of their problems.

KING COBRA When a lonely guy in suburbia goes into the gay porn business, he lucks out by discovering a new star. Unfortunately, rival pornographers (who want to steal the star) are not nice people. James Franco, Christian Slater, Garret Clayton and Keegan Allen star. Justin Kelly wrote and directed this thriller.

MOONLIGHT Based on Tarell Alvin McCraney’s play, this drama about growing up in a Miami neighborhood ravaged by drugs is, in A. O. Scott’s words, “a meditation on desire, identity and friendship.” With Mahershala Ali, Trevante Rhodes, André Holland and Naomie Harris. Barry Jenkins adapted and directed.

NATIONAL BIRD A documentary about America’s drone attacks and the veterans speaking out against them. Directed by Sonia Kennebeck.

OUIJA: ORIGIN OF EVIL In 1960s Los Angeles, a psychic’s new Ouija board gets out of hand, and her little girl is taken over by an evil force. With Doug Jones, Henry Thomas, Elizabeth Reaser and Kate Siegel. A supernatural-thriller sequel directed by Mike Flanagan.

TYLER PERRY’S BOO! A MADEA HALLOWEEN Mr. Perry wrote, directed and stars in his latest comedy feature, more than a decade after moviegoers first met the tyrannical, grandmotherly Madea (Mr. Perry) in “Diary of a Mad Black Woman.” She’s looking lovely here, in paisley and pearls, when she’s asked to chaperone a wild Halloween party. Drunk teenagers don’t scare her, but the zombies, poltergeists and otherworldly handwriting may. With Cassi Davis, Patrice Lovely and Bella Thorne.

THE UNCONDEMNED Of course, rape is a war crime, but prosecuting it as such was groundbreaking in 1997, when the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda did just that. Michele Mitchell and Nick Louvel directed this documentary.

WE ARE X Fresh from the festival circuit, a music documentary about the rock group X Japan; its frontman, Yoshiki; and the band’s tumultuous 30-year history. “If those guys were born in America,” Gene Simmons says in the film, “they might be the biggest band in the world.” Stephen Kijak directed.

THE WHOLE TRUTH Keanu Reeves and Renée Zellweger star in this courtroom thriller. He’s the defense lawyer, and she’s the mother of the teenage defendant (Gabriel Basso), charged with murdering his father. All kinds of secrets begin to come out, partly with the help of the lawyer’s new associate (Gugu Mbatha-Raw). Courtney Hunt directed.

PORTRAIT OF A GARDEN Daan van der Have lives near Rotterdam, the Netherlands, on an estate that dates to the 1630s. His pride and joy is the estate’s “kitchen garden” of flowering trees and vegetables, where he and his octogenarian pruning master, Jan Freriks, know how to shape a black mulberry espalier — just the way it was decreed by Louis XIV. From the Netherlands, a documentary meditation on patience and connoisseurship, written and directed by Rosie Stapel.

BLOOD ON THE MOUNTAIN A documentary about the people of West Virginia, looking at economic and environmental injustice, limited opportunity and corporate exploitation. Mari-Lynn Evans and Jordan Freeman directed.

BY SIDNEY LUMET Lumet, who died in 2011, sat down for this interview in 2008 and talked about the films he’d brought to the screen, along with the lessons and morality behind them. Nancy Buirski directed this documentary, which includes clips from “Dog Day Afternoon,” “Serpico,” “Network” and other Lumet masterworks.

THE EAGLE HUNTRESS Otto Bell’s documentary is everything you always wanted to know about Kazakh eagle-hunting traditions in Mongolia. Our subject, Aisholpan, is 13 and the first girl in 12 generations of her family to be trained for the job. It may sound obscure but it wowed Sundance, where the New York Times critic Manohla Dargis called it “a bliss-out.” Daisy Ridley narrates.

GIMME DANGER “This is what happens when a band lives fast and dies young,” a critic for Variety wrote when this documentary was at the Cannes Film Festival. Jim Jarmusch brings us the rock ’n’ roll story of Iggy Pop and the Stooges, who in the late ’60s and early ’70s set the stage for punk.

INFERNO Thank goodness Robert Langdon from “The Da Vinci Code” has awakened from his coma. Now, if he can only get his memory back, he can stop a madman from killing off half the world with a plague. There’s a connection with Dante’s “Inferno.” Tom Hanks is back as Langdon. Felicity Jones is his amnesia-specialist doctor, who goes globe-trotting with him. Ron Howard directed this suspense-thriller sequel.

INTO THE INFERNO In this completely un-“Da Vinci Code”-related and un-Dante-related documentary, Werner Herzog and a scientist, Clive Oppenheimer, explore volcanoes around the world and philosophize.

PETER AND THE FARM He’s hard-drinking, enthusiastically foulmouthed and lives alone now on his 187-acre Vermont farm. Documentary filmmakers start out asking Peter Dunning for agricultural tips but end up looking closely at a difficult life: marriages, estranged children, hard work, solitude, alcoholism and regrets. Tony Stone directed.

RINGS The third horror film about a videotape that kills you just for watching it, but that gives you seven days to freak out about your fate. Naomi Watts isn’t back this time, but Johnny Galecki stars, along with Matilda Lutz, Alex Roe, Aimee Teegarden and Laura Wiggins. This is a sequel, directed by F. Javier Gutiérrez — not a prequel, as had been rumored. No explanation for why anybody still owns a working VCR.

DON’T CALL ME SON From Brazil, a drama about a teenager named Pierre who enjoys wearing eyeliner and a lace G-string and having sex with boys and girls alike. Surprise: His single mom isn’t his real mother. She kidnapped him, and now he’s going home to his birthparents. Plot twist: They’re not that open-minded. Naomi Nero stars as Pierre. Anna Muylaert wrote and directed.

BLEED FOR THIS Miles Teller in a sports comeback drama, directed by Ben Younger. Mr. Teller plays a Rhode Island boxer who wins two world title fights, then breaks his neck in a car accident. Aaron Eckhart is the trainer who works with him to return to the ring. With Katey Sagal and Ciaran Hinds.

DOCTOR STRANGE Yes, they’ve gone and talked Benedict Cumberbatch into playing a Marvel superhero. Dr. Stephen Strange (born in a 1963 issue of Strange Tales comics) was an arrogant star neurosurgeon until his hands were destroyed in a car accident. Now he has shaggy hair, a beard and protects the world against magic and parallel universes, from his Greenwich Village base. This is the origin story, with Tilda Swinton (as an ancient sorcerer who, excuse me, was an Asian character in the comic books), Rachel McAdams and Chiwetel Ejiofor. Scott Derrickson directed.

DOG EAT DOG In Paul Schrader’s latest, Nicolas Cage and Willem Dafoe star as ex-cons who screw up a kidnapping assignment and have to hide out from the mob.

HACKSAW RIDGE Andrew Garfield stars in the true story of Desmond Doss, a Virginia-born conscientious objector who refused to carry a weapon in World War II but went into battle anyway and as a medic saved 75 men during the Battle of Okinawa. He was awarded the Medal of Honor. Directed by Mel Gibson (his first since “Apocalypto” in 2006).

HARRY BENSON: SHOOT FIRST In 1964, Mr. Benson, a young photographer from Scotland, scored the assignment of a lifetime: covering the Beatles’ first visit to the United States. Matthew Miele and Justin Bare directed this documentary, which looks at Mr. Benson’s long career (at 86, he’s still working) and his subjects, who have also included Winston Churchill, Robert F. Kennedy, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Muhammad Ali.

THE IVORY GAME A documentary about the world of ivory trafficking and the extinction threat facing African elephants. Richard Ladkani and Kief Davidson directed, filming undercover for 16 months.

LOVING That was their surname: Richard and Mildred Loving, a white man and a black woman from Virginia who married in 1958, when interracial unions were still illegal in many states. They were jailed and for a time left the state, but eventually their case went all the way to the Supreme Court. Joel Edgerton and Ruth Negga star in this portrait of their relationship. Jeff Nichols directed.

MY DEAD BOYFRIEND There’s a reason Mary (Heather Graham) is walking around the city carrying an urn. She considered her ’90s New York life pretty uneventful — temp jobs, vague attempts to write, a couch-potato boyfriend — in this comedy until she came home and found the guy dead in front of the television. Things suddenly get a lot more interesting because he was leading a double life. With John Corbett, Griffin Dunne and Gina Gershon. Directed by Anthony Edwards (long ago of “E. R.”).

THE PICKLE RECIPE Just how far will a D.J. go to make his daughter’s bat mitzvah happen? In this family comedy set at a Jewish deli in Detroit, the D.J. (Jon Dore) is in dire financial straits and turns to his shady uncle Morty (David Paymer). Morty will help, but only if the younger man steals his grandmother’s secret for making her fabulous dill pickles. With Lynn Cohen as the granny, who had been planning to take that recipe to her grave. Michael Manasseri directed.

RAINBOW TIME A mentally challenged 40-year-old, Shonzi, has to move in with his little brother, Todd, and Todd’s new girlfriend. But he wants to be part of their relationship and doesn’t understand that there are “different kinds of love.” If the couple shuts him out, he’ll tell family secrets. Linas Phillips wrote, directed and plays Shonzi. The film also stars Timm Sharp and Melanie Lynskey.

TROLLS The stars of this 3-D animated adventure are cheery creatures who sing all the time and always expect the best. Now the giant, grumpy, troll-eating (yikes!) Bergens have arrived, but maybe the little guys can fight them off with glitter — or with their tall troll hair. With the voices of Anna Kendrick and Justin Timberlake.

ALMOST CHRISTMAS Here’s the trouble with the holidays: Relatives frequently want to kill one another. In this comedy from David E. Talbert, one family is forced to spend Christmas together because the patriarch says so. The cast includes Kimberly Elise, Omar Epps, Danny Glover, Mo’Nique and Romany Malco.

THE ANTHROPOLOGIST Susan Crate, an environmental anthropologist, travels the world with her teenage daughter to find out how indigenous cultures are altering their lives to adapt to climate change. This documentary, directed by Seth Kramer, Daniel A. Miller and Jeremy Newberger, covers five years of their work, from Siberia to the South Pacific.

ARRIVAL It rarely turns out well when mysterious spaceships suddenly land all over the planet. This time, only a world-class linguist (Amy Adams) can save us, by determining what the aliens are up to. With Jeremy Renner and Forest Whitaker. From Denis Villeneuve.

BILLY LYNN’S LONG HALFTIME WALK Ang Lee (an Academy Award winner for “Life of Pi” and “Brokeback Mountain”) tries some new technology in his latest drama, about a baby-faced 19-year-old veteran being honored at a big Thanksgiving Day pro-football game. He and his buddies are the survivors of a horrific battle in Iraq, and while the 120-frames-per-second flashbacks show just how inglorious war can be, the real shock is that the young men are being sent back into battle, right after the show. Joe Alwyn, a British newcomer, plays Billy. With Kristen Stewart, Chris Tucker, Garrett Hedlund, Vin Diesel and Steve Martin.

COME AND FIND ME Aaron Paul (has it really been three years since “Breaking Bad” ended?) stars as a man whose wife disappears. It turns out she was living a double life, so finding her isn’t simple (or necessarily advisable). With Annabelle Wallis and Garret Dillahunt. Zack Whedon wrote and directed.

DISTURBING THE PEACE In Stephen Apkon and Andrew Young’s documentary, Israeli soldiers and Palestinian combatants do more than come together after their military service is over: They unite as antiwar activists.

ELLE Isabelle Huppert stars in this thriller about a Parisian video game mogul whose life changes after she is raped. But she has never seen herself as a victim, and she isn’t going to start now. It helps that game designers know something about strategic revenge. Paul Verhoeven, the director, said he had thought about moving the story to the United States, but he decided “no American actress would ever take on such an amoral movie.”

SHUT IN Naomi Watts and Jacob Tremblay (the little boy from “Room”) star in this thriller about a retired psychologist, enjoying a life of quiet New England isolation, who is suddenly faced with saving a child’s life during a winter storm. Farren Blackburn directed.

U.S.S. INDIANAPOLIS: MEN OF COURAGE Weeks before the end of World War II, one ship has the history-altering job of delivering the nuclear weapons that the United States is about to use. But crew members soon find themselves shipwrecked and surrounded by sharks. Nicolas Cage stars, with Tom Sizemore and Thomas Jane. Mario Van Peebles directed.

NOTES ON BLINDNESS The British-based theologian John Hull was in his 40s when he lost his sight. This documentary, written and directed by Peter Middleton and James Spinney, focuses on his experience, his observations and his fight “to retain the fullness of my humanity.” Mr. Hull died last year, at 80.

THE EDGE OF SEVENTEEN In high school, there is no rule against a girl dating her best friend’s big brother. But keeping something like that a secret from the bestie is a problem. Hailee Steinfeld and Haley Lu Richardson star in a coming-of-age comedy-drama, with Kyra Sedgwick as a hopelessly unhelpful mother and Woody Harrelson as an irreverent teacher-mentor. Kelly Fremon Craig wrote and directed.

FANTASTIC BEASTS AND WHERE TO FIND THEM How to improve the Harry Potter stories without Harry: Put his world of witches and wizards in New York in 1926. J. K. Rowling wrote the screenplay, her first. David Yates directed. Eddie Redmayne stars as Newt Scamander, a magizoologist who was expelled from Hogwarts but has moved on. With Katherine Waterston, Colin Farrell and Zoe Kravitz.

MANCHESTER BY THE SEA The playwright Kenneth Lonergan wrote and directed this drama set on Massachusetts’ north shore. Casey Affleck’s taciturn janitor finds himself the reluctant legal guardian of his orphaned nephew (Lucas Hedges) and has to come to terms with his estranged wife (Michelle Williams) and a long-ago tragedy.

NOCTURNAL ANIMALS Amy Adams stars as an art-gallery owner frightened by her ex-husband’s violent new novel, about tragedy on a family trip. With Jake Gyllenhaal, Isla Fisher and Michael Shannon. A thriller from Tom Ford, the fashion designer turned filmmaker.

OFF THE RAILS Little Darius McCollum always loved New York subways. Motormen made him a sort of mascot and taught him the entire system by the time he was 8. The mistake made by Mr. McCollum, who has Asperger’s syndrome, was driving the trains without actually being employed by the transit authority.In middle age, he continues to be jailed time after time for his obsession. Adam Irving directed this documentary.

THE RED TURTLE A French-Japanese-Belgian animated fantasy-drama for grown-up moviegoers. Without dialogue, it tells the story of a man shipwrecked on an island with only turtles, crabs and birds to keep him company. Written and directed by Michael Dudok de Wit.

SPIRIT GAME: PRIDE OF A NATION A documentary about the year the Iroquois Nationals team made it to the national indoor-lacrosse finals and the championship games were held on an American Indian reservation in upstate New York. Peter Spirer and Peter Baxter directed.

ALLIED They’ll always have Casablanca. That’s where Brad Pitt, as a Canadian spy during World War II, and Marion Cotillard, as a French agent, meet and fall in love. The complication, he learns (after the two are married and have a baby), is that she may be a Nazi spy. Robert Zemeckis, whose career has ranged from the “Back to the Future” movies to “Cast Away,” directed. With Jared Harris, Lizzy Caplan and Matthew Goode.

BAD SANTA 2 Billy Bob Thornton returns in this comedy sequel as Willie Soke, the most despicable foulmouthed American who ever played a department-store Santa Claus. The only thing worse would be his mother, who shows up here played by Kathy Bates.With Tony Cox as Willie’s sidekick and Christina Hendricks as the object of his desire. A Christmas Eve heist in Chicago is on his schedule. Mark Waters directed.

MOANA A teenage girl goes on an impossible ocean voyage, battles monsters, saves her people and does some mad self-actualizing while she’s at it. Disney’s newest animated comedy adventure is set in Oceania. With the voices of Auli‘i Cravalho, and Dwayne Johnson (as the demigod who teaches her how to be a “master wayfinder”).

RULES DON’T APPLY Warren Beatty is back, with the first film he’s directed since “Bulworth,” 18 years ago. He also stars, as Howard Hughes. It’s Hollywood in 1958, and a virginal young actress (Lily Collins) has just arrived to begin her career on contract to Hughes. Her first mistake is falling for her boss’s handsomechauffeur. Her second may be spending the evening with Hughes. The cast includes Alden Ehrenreich (as the chauffeur), Annette Bening (as the girl’s protective mother) and Matthew Broderick (as the aide who always seems to be around).

EVOLUTION Mommy, why do we live on an island with only women and little boys? Why do all the mommies dress alike and hold strange meetings on the beach at night? Where did that dead body in the ocean come from? Why do I have to go to the hospital now? This horror drama is from France and the director Lucile Hadzihalilovic. With Max Brebant, Roxane Duran and Julie-Marie Parmentier.

LION True story: A 5-year-old boy in India gets lost, ends up living on the streets of Calcutta, is rescued by orphanage officials and adopted by a nice Australian couple. Some 25 years later, he sets out to find his real family. Dev Patel stars as the grown man Saroo, and Sunny Pawar plays him as a boy, with a supporting cast that includes Nicole Kidman, Rooney Mara and Google Earth. Garth Davis is the first-time director. When the film screened at the Toronto film festival, a lot of reviews predicted Oscar nominations.

BOBBY SANDS: 66 DAYS If you happened to be in Ireland in 1981, you saw Sands’s photograph everywhere. He was a martyr already, a 27-year-old I.R.A. member behind bars for weapons possession during the Troubles, leading a hunger strike for the right for men like him to be treated as political prisoners. From Ireland, a documentary about his last two months, based on his prison diaries. Brendan J. Byrne directed.

OLD STONE From China, a little social realism, a little noir, a big dose of “No good deed goes unpunished.”A taxi driver, distracted by a passenger, accidentally hits a motorcyclist and drives him to the hospital. The next thing you know, he’s being held responsible for the man’s medical bills and is in danger of losing his job and family. Johnny Ma wrote and directed.

ALWAYS SHINE Two actresses who used to be close friends go to Big Sur, Calif., for the weekend, hoping to reconnect. But instead the getaway stirs up feelings of betrayal, jealousy and questions about identity. A psychological drama directed by Sophia Takal, starring Mackenzie Davis and Caitlin FitzGerald.

THE EYES OF MY MOTHER A horror drama with a Portuguese accent, set on an isolated American farm. Olivia Bond plays little Francisca, who witnesses a horrible crime, and Kika Magalhaes is the grown-up Francisca, who has been messed up by it. In black-and-white, so the blood isn’t so gross. Nicolas Pesce wrote and directed.

KIDNAP Halle Berry, back from outer space and superhero-world, stars in this thriller as a mother determined, really determined, to rescue her kidnapped son. Luis Prieto directed.

LA LA LAND Ryan Gosling and Emma Stone in a musical. As the title suggests, the story is set in Los Angeles, land of easily crushed dreams. He’s a jazz musician; she wants to be an actress. With John Legend, Finn Wittrock and Rosemarie DeWitt. Damien Chazelle (“Whiplash”) directed. At the Venice Film Festival, The Hollywood Reporter called it “dazzling and beautiful.” At Telluride, Tom Hanks interrupted a Q. and A. about his own movie to praise it.

SIREN A nice guy whose friends take him to a sex club for his bachelor party tries to save a poor, seemingly victimized woman working there. But it’s a supernatural sex club, and she turns out to be a monster, literally. With Chase Williamson, Justin Welborn and Hannah Fierman as the demon. Directed by Gregg Bishop, based on a segment of the 2012 horror anthology “V/H/S.”

THINGS TO COME Isabelle Huppert plays Jill Clayburgh in “An Unmarried Woman,” sort of, except she’s French and has to deal with two huge emotional blows. Her character is a long-married philosophy teacher devoted to her aging mother. Then her husband leaves her for another woman, and her mother dies. It’s reinvent-yourself time. Mia Hansen-Love won the best director award for this at the Berlin Film Festival.

BYE BYE MAN “He makes us do things,” a young man says. “He” is the title character, who occupies (in some supernatural way) the same old off-campus house three college students have moved into. And it turns out he’s the force behind every truly horrible thing humans have ever done. Only the old owner’s widow (a cameo by Faye Dunaway) may know more. Stacy Title directed.

LAND OF MINE Just after the end of World War II, a group of very young German prisoners of war are forced by the Danish Army to defuse and clear an enormous number of land mines left on the country’s beaches. Martin Zandvliet wrote and directed this Danish drama about the relationship between revenge and common decency.

MISS SLOANE Jessica Chastain stars as a truly ruthless Washington lobbyist who plays to win, but this time she may have met her match: the vastly powerful gun lobby. John Madden (“Shakespeare in Love”) directed this political thriller. With Gugu Mbatha-Raw and Mark Strong.

OFFICE CHRISTMAS PARTY Jennifer Aniston and Jason Bateman are part of the ensemble-comedy cast in this story of an over-the-top holiday get-together. It was just intended to impress a new client. With T. J. Miller, Olivia Munn and Kate McKinnon. Josh Gordon and Will Speck directed.

ON THE MAP A basketball documentary with a Cold War subplot. The subject is the Maccabi Tel Aviv team, which defeated the championship Soviet Union team in 1977 (just four years after the Yom Kippur war). Moshe Dayan “was at every one of our games,” recalls Eric Minkin, one of the team’s American players. Maccabi went on to win the European Cup. Dani Menkin directed.

THE SALESMAN From Iran, a drama that owes its title to Arthur Miller. A young Tehran couple are starring in a community theater production of “Death of a Salesman” when they have to move and their marriage starts to fall apart. The new apartment is very questionable. With Shahab Hosseini and Taraneh Alidoosti, and directed by Asghar Farhadi. The film took home the award for best actor and best screenplay from Cannes this year.

GHOSTLAND The Bushmen of the Kalahari have done a lot of serious adapting in recent years, forced to abandon their hunter-gatherer economy. In this documentary from Germany, a small group of Bushmen take on the role of anthropologists, visiting Europe and concluding that the people there are “big and loud” and “want too much.” Simon Stadler directed.

COLLATERAL BEAUTY “It’s a little bit ‘It’s a Wonderful Life’ and a little bit ‘The Wizard of Oz,’” Will Smith told Indiewire about this drama directed by David Frankel (“The Devil Wears Prada”). Mr. Smith stars as a New York adman dealing with a devastating personal tragedy. Helen Mirren, Edward Norton, Keira Knightley, Kate Winslet and Michael Peña try to help him deal with his grief.

THE FOUNDER Michael Keaton in 1950s cocky-guy mode as Ray Kroc, the so-called founder of McDonald’s. Actually, he was the hapless, middle-aged milkshake-mixer salesman who bought the business from the McDonald brothers and perfected their system. John Lee Hancock directed.

A KIND OF MURDER Another Patricia Highsmith novel (“The Blunderer”) comes to the screen. Patrick Wilson stars as an unhappily married rich guy obsessed with a suspected wife-murderer (Eddie Marsan) and his story. Lines blur. Jessica Biel plays a neurotic wife, who may not be long for this world, and Vincent Kartheiser is a zealous police detective. Andy Goddard directed this suspense drama, set in midcentury New York.

NERUDA In 1948, the poet Pablo Neruda was a senator in his native Chile. But when he criticized the government in no uncertain terms, he was threatened with arrest and went into hiding. In this Cold War-era drama about persecution, Neruda (Luis Gnecco) sets out to flee the country, playing cat and mouse with the police prefect (Gael García Bernal) on his case. Pablo Larraín directed.

ROGUE ONE: A STAR WARS STORY No, this is not the next “Star Wars.” That’s going to be “Episode VIII,” in 2017. This is a separate Lucasfilm adventure about a group of people who set out to steal the plans for the Death Star. With Felicity Jones, Diego Luna, Ben Mendelsohn and Forest Whitaker. Gareth Edwards directed.

ASSASSIN’S CREED This man really didn’t expect the Spanish Inquisition, but he got to live through it. In this action-adventure, an everyday 21st-century bartender (Michael Fassbender) unlocks some genetic memories, becomes his ancestor in 15th-century Spain and learns that he’s descended from a secret society of assassins. Time to get busy fighting the present-day Knights Templar. With Marion Cotillard and Jeremy Irons. Based on the video-game series and directed by Justin Kurzel.

AUTOPSY OF JANE DOE A father-and-son coroner team (Brian Cox and Emile Hirsch) become fascinated with a beautiful young woman whose body comes to their lab. But it could be a mistake for them to investigate what happened to her, because this is a horror film. André Ovredal directed.

JULIETA Pedro Almodóvar tackles guilt, fear and abandonment in his newest drama. The title character, a middle-aged woman in Madrid, interrupts everything in her life when she learns that her daughter, who cut off ties when she was 18, is living in Switzerland and married with children. Thus begins a movie-length flashback covering youth, love, marriage and a husband’s death. Emma Suárez stars as the present-day Julieta, with Adriana Ugarte as her younger self and Daniel Grao as her husband. Mr. Almodóvar adapted the script from three short stories by Alice Munro.

PASSENGERS Jennifer Lawrence and Chris Pratt fall in love on a glamorous spaceship. On a really long journey to a colony planet, the suspended-animation system malfunctions, and these two wake up 90 years early. Luckily, the place is like a five-star resort, and they’re beautiful people, so they make the best of things. But then there’s a genre change: They learn the ship is in danger, as are the 5,000 other passengers still sleeping peacefully. Morten Tyldum (“The Imitation Game”) directed.

PATRIOTS DAY This drama about the terrorist attack at the 2013 Boston Marathon, which killed three and injured hundreds, stars Mark Wahlberg, Kevin Bacon and J. K. Simmons as men in blue, staging a major manhunt. Peter Berg directed.

SING What if all the contestants on “American Idol” were cute animals? In this animated musical comedy, a koala (the voice of Matthew McConaughey) has run into financial problems and could lose his once-very-grand theater. So he decides to produce a monumental fund-raising singing contest and sees talent immediately in a punk-rock porcupine, a crooning mouse, a teenage elephant and more. With the voices of Reese Witherspoon, Scarlett Johansson, Seth MacFarlane and Taron Egerton.

THE SPACE BETWEEN US Gardner is a lucky teenager, growing up as part of the Earth colony on Mars with lots of surrogate parents. (His mother, one of the original astronauts, died in childbirth.) Now Gardner has met a girl online and wants to visit her on Earth, but strangely his organs can’t deal with Earth’s atmosphere. Everyone suddenly remembers that his mother never mentioned who the father was. Peter Chelsom directed this interplanetary adventure, with Asa Butterfield, Britt Robertson, Carla Gugino and Gary Oldman.

20TH CENTURY WOMEN Life is confusing for a teenage punk-rocker in Santa Barbara, Calif., in 1979. Luckily for him, there are three great women in his life, who can teach him what he needs to know. With Annette Bening, Greta Gerwig, Elle Fanning and Lucas Jade Zumann. Mike Mills wrote and directed.

A MONSTER CALLS When a 12-year-old boy’s mother is very ill, he could use some emotional support. In this fantasy drama, he isn’t getting it from his bullying classmates or nasty grandmother, but he’s lucky enough to find a tree monster — terrifyingly tall but kind and wise — at his bedroom window. Starring Felicity Jones, Sigourney Weaver, Liam Neeson (as the monster) and Lewis MacDougall. J. A. Bayona directed.

I, DANIEL BLAKE When Ken Loach’s newest film won the Palme d’Or at Cannes, Variety called it “a work of scalding and moving relevance.” Dave Johns, a British comic, stars as Daniel, a widowed carpenter who runs up against heartless English bureaucracy when he can no longer work after a heart attack. Hayley Squires plays the single mother he befriends as he fights for his survival and dignity.

FENCES August Wilson’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play comes to the screen, directed by and starring Denzel Washington as a former Negro Leagues baseball star reduced in the 1950s to life as a Pittsburgh sanitation worker. Both Mr. Washington and Viola Davis, as his graciously resigned wife, won Tony Awards when they played the roles onstage six years ago. The New York Times said Mr. Washington “might as well have ‘Warning: Explosives’ tattooed across his forehead, with ‘Breakable’ stamped on his back.”

TONI ERDMANN At Cannes, Manohla Dargis, writing in The New York Times, called it “a work of great beauty, great feeling and great cinema.” Time Out London declared it “just brilliant.” In this German comic drama, a father tries to reconnect with his stressed-out management-consultant daughter. He chooses to do this by disguising himself as the title character. Peter Simonischek and Sandra Hüller star. Written and directed by Maren Ade.

WHY HIM? The happy news for Bryan Cranston’s character is that his daughter, a Stanford student, has found her true love. The complication is that the guy is an enormous jerk (James Franco), a Silicon Valley zillionaire who was too busy getting rich to develop any social filters. It’s a comedy, directed by John Hamburg. With Megan Mullally and Zoey Deutch.

PATERSON Adam Driver plays a bus driver named Paterson who lives in Paterson, N.J. This week-in-the-life drama, Jim Jarmusch’s second film of the season, reveals the driver as a man of routine whose only creative outlet is writing poetry, and his wife (Golshifteh Farahani) as a fireball of new projects and changing passions. The real poetry is in the details.

Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O’Connor.

All New Yorkers think their neighborhoods have personalities. But it takes the imagination of a comic-book artist to give them feelings and a soul.

“What if Brooklyn was sentient?” the cartoonist Dean Haspiel wondered. “And its heart was broken, and physically seceded from America?” The result is “New Brooklyn,” a free weekly comic web series that chronicles life in the anthropomorphized borough. Appearing in its panels are new heroes and villains like the Red Hook, Benson Hurst, Billy Burg and the Brooklynite.

Mr. Haspiel grew up in Manhattan on the Upper West Side but moved to Brooklyn in 1997. He has the borough pride of a new recruit. He is the consummate Brooklyn comic-book artist. He even served as the basis for a larger-than-life Brooklyn comic-book artist played by Zach Galifianakis in the HBO comedy series “Bored to Death.”

“New Brooklyn,” which began appearing on the comics website LINE Webtoon this month, combines many of Mr. Haspiel’s touchstones. There is his adoration of the superheroes and creators of Silver Age comics (like the Fantastic Four and Jack Kirby). There are romantic notions of years of artistic pursuits finally paying off — in the fantasy barter system of “New Brooklyn,” art is practically gold. “We’d rise to the cream of the crop,” Mr. Haspiel said during an interview at his art studio in Gowanus.

And crucially, there is the network of contributors that Mr. Haspiel seems to inspire and move among. His collaborators on “New Brooklyn” include Vito Delsante, the writer of “The Purple Heart,” whom he met at a comic store and who later joined his studio, and Shamus Beyale, the cartoonist on “The Brooklynite,” who worked with his friend Seth Kushner, a photographer and comic book writer who died last year.

Mr. Haspiel, who lives in Carroll Gardens, had the idea for the Red Hook, the pulp hero who stars in the first 26-week installment, in 2012. The initial conceit was “a superthief that is forced to become a superhero,” he said. “It’s like the reverse of ‘Breaking Bad.’ ‘Breaking Good’ is the corny way of describing it.”

But things didn’t really jell until 2014, when two American flags on the Brooklyn Bridge were mysteriously replaced with white flags. It turned out to be an art stunt about celebrating public spaces, but it inspired Mr. Haspiel to ponder why Brooklyn had given up. He decided the borough was tired of modern America and wanted to revert to the ways of old.

That kind of thinking is not a surprise to anyone familiar with Mr. Haspiel, 48, who comes across like a comic-book tough guy but is quickly unmasked as a soft touch. A visit to his studio began with him introducing the other comic artists working in the subdivided warehouse. (Though he founded the online comic collective ACT-I-VATE, he’s still a firm believer in print and does his inking by hand.) A couple of his studio mates, including Christa Cassano, listened in on the interview and gently scoffed when he said things like “You can’t gift a GIF” while talking about the emotional value of books.

Mr. Haspiel has worked for Marvel and DC Comics, and has illustrated autobiographical work for Harvey Pekar, Inverna Lockpez and Jonathan Ames. He won an Emmy Award in 2010 for his design of the title sequences for comedy “Bored to Death.”

He pitched his Red Hook concept to LINE Webtoon, an online portal for free digital comics that was founded in South Korea and last year started making a push into the American market. The pitch’s success may have been helped by the fact that the site’s head of content, Tom Akel, is a third-generation Brooklynite who recently relocated to the West Coast.

Webtoon’s comics are designed to be read on mobile devices; readers scroll through each chapter, one panel at a time. It’s a striking departure from classic newsprint comics, and even the original web versions of them. There is a fixed width for the artwork that requires a different approach to creating a comic, which typically allowed for panels of varying size and drawings as big as double-page spreads. “There is no pinching or making things bigger or smaller,” Mr. Haspiel said. He and the other “New Brooklyn” creators became their own support network to rethink everything from pacing to lettering.

“The Brooklynite,” written and drawn by Mr. Beyale, expands on a character created by Mr. Kushner, who was a former studio-mate of Mr. Haspiel’s in Gowanus. “Seth wrote about two issues’ worth of script. I expanded it to about six issues,” Mr. Beyale said. Mr. Haspiel describes the Brooklynite as having “Superman powers, but Peter Parker problems.”

Besides dealing with the Brooklynite’s secret identity, the story will introduce other characters, including a gay superhero couple. “Trying to make the characters more diverse and more progressive is important,” said Mr. Beyale, who is Navajo, and lives in Bay Ridge. “Brooklyn itself is a big mishmash of backgrounds.” Other heroes to be introduced are Mexican, Chinese and Navajo. He is also keeping Mr. Kushner’s wife, Terra Kushner, apprised of his progress with the story. “Knowing that his family is still there and I can talk to them about Seth is a good feeling,” he said.

“Seth had this love and passion for Brooklyn his whole life,” Ms. Kushner said of her husband, who was born at Coney Island Hospital. She is eager to see the final product and trusts that his creation is in good hands. “Even if Seth was here, whatever he originally created would change,” she said. “That’s naturally going to happen.”

Rounding out “New Brooklyn” is “The Purple Heart,” written by Mr. Delsante and drawn by Ricardo Venâncio, the only creative team that is not made up of local residents. Mr. Delsante is now based in Pittsburgh; Mr. Venâncio in Portugal.

“The Purple Heart is basically the avatar of the heart of Brooklyn,” Mr. Delsante said. His part of the story will focus on the origin of his hero, and what led Brooklyn to break away from the rest of the country.

“There is a certain sort of pride to being from Brooklyn,” he said. “They don’t want outsiders to come. Whatever caused the separation, they’re glad.”

Naturally, where there are villains and superheroes, there will be conflict.

“You have these small clans — these little neighborhoods — who are now trying to take political power. It’s basically an exploration of politics and the needs and desires of an entire group of people,” Mr. Delsante said. “It sounds so highbrow, but it’s really not. It’s just a comic.”

With college basketball’s postseason in full swing, casual television viewers soon will see famous faces popping up at games across the country: Kim Kardashian. Donald Trump. Miss Universe. Not their actual faces, but rather their attention-grabbing likenesses: oversized cutouts of their heads, waved around by fans looking to draw the eye of both opposing shooters and network cameras.

Forget heckling and Thunderstix. The new crowd staple is Taylor Swift. Or Tom Brady. Or Bert and Ernie.

For better or worse, giant heads have become ubiquitous, nosing into college games and World Cup viewing parties, Davis Cup matches and N.F.L. victory parades. This year they even have become staples at political rallies, rising above cheering crowds to reflect the wide smiles of the candidates right back at them.

“It’s amazing to see how the phenomenon has grown,” said Nathan Partington, vice president for licensing at Fathead, now one of the leading suppliers of items of the sort once fashioned at home from pizza boxes and glue sticks.

Few places have embraced the fad quite like college basketball, and few programs with as much variety as Marquette University. The Golden Eagles got into the big-head game in 2005 after Craig Pintens, a former associate athletic director, found inspiration in something that caught his eye in crowd photographs from another team’s gym: giant cutouts depicting the face of the singer Michael Jackson.

“I thought, Why can’t we do this?” Pintens said.

Pintens reacted like any good marketing man. He drove to a hardware store and bought a jigsaw. Then, in the basement of Marquette’s athletics building, he got to work hand-crafting sheets of plastic into the shapes of other famous visages. Beyoncé. Chuck Norris. Jay Leno. Mr. Potato Head.

The initial 20 or so creations, first distributed to students at halftime of a Marquette-Connecticut game in January 2006, became so popular that Marquette eventually put a page on its website where fans could submit ideas, vote for favorites and “retire” the classics.

Of course, jigsaws are no longer necessary. Several companies allow fans to order big heads on demand, fueling a bespoke industry that reaches well beyond the sports arena.

Fathead, known for giant wall decals, has more than doubled its big-head production since it started offering signs in 2012 — thanks, in part, to its success with music acts like One Direction and Luke Bryan and interest (and orders) for heads related to Marvel comics characters and World Wrestling Entertainment stars, and more recently to all six of the remaining United States major-party presidential candidates. The party supplier Shindigz offers customizable three-foot-tall big heads specifically for graduations, birthday celebrations or retirement parties.

And then there is Build-A-Head, a six-year-old company based in Phoenix that bills itself as the largest big-head supplier in the world. Build-A-Head said it took in more than $1.5 million in revenue in 2015, when it produced about 150,000 heads. That works out to about $10 per head; Fathead charges about $30 each, while prices at Shindigz generally fall between those extremes.

“People see it in use, and their wheels get turning,” said Bryan Price, who founded Build-A-Head with a friend in his garage and now has 10 people on his staff. “We’re an open book for their creativity.”

With companies offering big heads in sizes ranging from two feet to frighteningly supersize, and priced in the neighborhood of a couple of extra-large pizzas, the business may have room to grow. Indeed, the zaniness that seemed to ignite the trend has continued to fuel it. Fathead said that about 6 percent of its noncustom big-head sales since November had been images of political figures. The company says it will not print images of celebrities or characters it does not have licensing deals for. Build-A-Head does not have any licensing deals, although it has promotional arrangements with some teams.

Big heads seem to pop up just about everywhere: Nascar tracks, beauty pageants, the Coachella music festival. Among Build-A-Head’s most frequent clients today are bachelorette parties. “We’re dealing with anyone from a soccer mom to Rihanna’s foundation event,” Price said.

But to most, including Pintens, now a senior associate athletic director at Oregon, the big heads remain “quintessentially college basketball.”

They were created to be agents of distraction, the same way fans once held pinwheels or foam noodles. Except this time, it is a giant visage of Pope Francis. Or a panda. Or Gumby. College students were more than capable of outdoing themselves with increasingly outrageous and obscure material, and basketball — in part because of the often minimal distance between the fans in the stands and the players on the court — seemed like an ideal gallery.

“In college basketball, the crowd can affect the game more than any other sport,” Pintens said. “Behind the basket, there’s always been something going on.”

Many trace the origins of the big heads to a few mischievous San Diego State students in the early 2000s, but the lineage could reach back even further than that. Poster-size cutouts of Adam Sandler’s head, for instance, appear sprinkled through the golf crowds in Sandler’s 1996 film “Happy Gilmore.”

After San Diego State fans brought the big heads courtside, Marquette took the idea a few steps further. From 2006 to 2013, the Golden Eagles produced at least 150 heads for use during games, according to totals on the heads’ official web page, which lists those that have been retired, stolen or traded, and even the win-loss records of each big head. (Most wins? The “Family Guy” character Stewie Griffin, with 35, trailed closely by Charles Barkley and Dick Vitale.) Marquette refers to its big heads as Big Noggins, after the university signed a sponsorship deal with a local job board, JobNoggin.com, to put ads on the backs of its heads.

The production process at Marquette — which still relies on marketing assistants to cut out each Big Noggin by hand — is now supported by Spirit Shop, a campus retail store. Rather than encouraging students to bring their own signs to games, Marquette prefers to maintain control over the production and distribution (up to around 40 signs per game), but it allows students to suggest ideas.

“It gives kids an opportunity to get engaged in a game,” said Mike Broeker, a deputy athletic director. “That’s what everybody is trying to figure out: How do you raise the fan engagement?”

Marquette has learned some lessons over the years. For one, it now uses vinyl for the printing material, after spilled drinks ruined some early models that had been printed on foam core.

Another problem was theft. Students would take the big heads home, unaware that Marquette intended to reuse them. Pintens once spotted one of his Mike Tyson creations hanging on the wall of a student’s dorm room.

“Tyson was staring at me through the window,” Pintens said. “I remember thinking, Man, we’ve got to fix this.”

Marquette now holds student identification cards as collateral.

Ten years on, the big heads’ popularity remains strong. Partington said Fathead’s 2015 sales of big heads had outdone sales from the previous year, and he sees no signs of a slowdown. Neither does Marquette, which plans to bring some of its signs to Madison Square Garden for this week’s Big East tournament.

“We drew our Big Noggin ideas from the news and, well, the news keeps cycling,” Broeker said. “As long as people keep making news, I guess Big Noggins will still be a popular fan amenity for us.”

Still looking for the perfect holiday gift for that little someone on your list? A lot of today’s technology is geared toward adults, but there are exciting new tech toys for children, too. Here are some good options to help a child on your list create, learn, explore and have fun.

View-Master VR, $30

Mattel has teamed up with Google to update View-Master, the ubiquitous red plastic viewfinder of generations past, to offer a virtual reality experience. The new viewing process is simple: You download one of several View-Master apps to a smartphone and then secure the phone inside the View-Master device. Looking at the app through the View-Master starts an immersive exploration of, for example, Liberty Island, the African savanna or outer space, including photos, video and minigames. The starter kit includes the viewer and a preview reel; additional “experience packs” are available for $15. The device is aimed at children 7 and up. The panoramic view can produce wonderment, but also dizziness, so make sure there is nothing breakable nearby.

BB-8 App-Enabled Droid, $150

BB-8, a pint-size robot from Sphero, is one of the hottest toys this holiday season. Modeled after its character in “Star Wars: The Force Awakens,” BB-8 has a personality that evolves, responding in different ways depending on your interactions. After connecting BB-8 to an iOS or Android device via Bluetooth Smart BLE, you can guide him around a room with the app or use voice commands. (A favorite is “It’s a trap,” which causes BB-8 to scurry away.) Or send him out on patrol, during which he will explore his surroundings on his own. You can also record and send a video message to BB-8, which he will transform into a virtual hologram. BB-8 is for children 8 and up.

Playmation Marvel Avengers, $120

The Playmation Marvel Avengers system from Hasbro combines an app, wearable tech and connected toys to create an adventure story intended to get children active and using their imagination. After strapping on the Iron Man-inspired Repulsor arm armor, players interact with the toys, becoming a superhero like Captain America or Black Widow to defeat villains like Ultron and Iron Skull. Jarvis, the artificial intelligence machine from the “Iron Man” series, instructs players to shoot targets and block enemy fire while running, jumping and hiding. Between battles, players can train and improve their skills. (The system is meant for children 6 and up.) The app, for Android and iOS devices, tracks battle stats and provides additional mission content.

Lego Dimensions Starter Pack, $100

With Dimensions, Lego has taken the leap into the toys-to-life category, physical toys that come to digital life. Dimensions is a video game that incorporates characters from DC Comics, “The Lord of the Rings,” “The Simpsons” and many other entertaining fictional worlds. The game, aimed at children 7 to 14, focuses on three characters — Gandalf, Batman and Wyldstyle — as they travel through a portal to solve puzzles and fight enemies. Dimensions adds physical interaction to the game: Players have to build the toys first (269 pieces come in the starter kit), then rebuild them later to unlock new features. But the real fun is mixing characters in unusual ways. Where else could Homer Simpson save Lois Lane with a belch or Scooby-Doo sniff out clues for the Twelfth Doctor?

Crayola Color Alive Easy Animation Studio, $25

Stop-motion animation typically requires painstaking hours of moving objects in small increments and photographing each pose. With its “smooth action technology,” the Color Alive Easy Animation Studio from Crayola simplifies the process, helping young directors — those 6 and up — create seamless animated clips with just a few photos. Children can choose one of 10 characters in a booklet to design, including a fairy, a robot, a superhero or a zombie. Using Crayola’s Easy Animator app for iOS and Android devices, the design is scanned into the app. Premade animations and backgrounds are offered in the app, or children can create their own using an eight-inch poseable mannequin and photographing places in their house or yard. Only a few poses are needed; the app fills in the rest.

LittleBits Gizmos & Gadgets Kit, $200

The electronic building kits developed by littleBits are popular among young tinkerers. This year, littleBits has expanded its line of electronic building kits with Gizmos & Gadgets, a set that can be used to build and recombine 12 devices, including a fan and a doorbell. The kit, aimed at children 8 and older, provides all the tools needed, including easy-to-understand instructions. The components, called Bits, include power switches, light sensors, dimmers and buzzers that snap together using magnets. For those inspired to greater heights, supplemental kits are available, and littleBits has a community website for inventors to show off their creations.