All dates subject to change.

November

WEDNESDAY

INTERSTELLAR One minute Matthew McConaughey is driving through the cornfields, worrying about dust storms and famine. The next he’s in outer space with fellow astronauts (Anne Hathaway among them), searching for a new planet where humans can relocate. The trick is that a new wormhole has been discovered, and they can travel a lot farther a lot faster. The cast also includes Michael Caine, Jessica Chastain, Ellen Burstyn, John Lithgow, Bill Irwin, Casey Affleck, Wes Bentley and Topher Grace. From Christopher Nolan, whose last directorial project was “The Dark Knight Rises.”

NATIONAL GALLERY  Over the last half-century or so, Frederick Wiseman has made documentaries about schools, sports arenas, social problems, ballet and Central Park. Now he turns his attention to the National Gallery in London; its masterworks, among them Rembrandts, Vermeers and Caravaggios; and the people who know the art best.

FRIDAY

ACTRESS When a woman pushing 40 decides to return to her acting career, relationships suffer and drama ensues; Brandy Burre, the woman going through all of this in real life, plays herself. A documentary directed by Robert Greene.

THE BETTER ANGELS Two years after Steven Spielberg’s “Lincoln” comes this drama about Abraham Lincoln’s hardship-driven boyhood in Indiana in 1817. Jason Clarke and Diane Kruger play the father and the stepmother, Wes Bentley is an influential tutor, and Braydon Denney is young, quiet Abe. The film, shot in black-and-white to emphasize the austerity of the time and place, is the directorial debut of A. J. Edwards, a Terrence Malick protégé.

BHOPAL: A PRAYER FOR RAIN  In December 1984, a pesticide plant exploded in Bhopal, India, creating a chemical spill that killed as many as 25,000 people and sickened many thousands of others. Ravi Kumar’s documentary, which features Martin Sheen, Kal Penn and Mischa Barton, looks at the aftermath, the blame and life in Bhopal 30 years later.

BIG HERO 6 From Marvel Comics, via Disney animation, with characters named Wasabi, Honey Lemon and Baymax (a robot whose parents could have been the Pillsbury Doughboy and an Al Capp shmoo). Hiro, a little-boy robotics prodigy, and his crime-fighting team set out to save the world — or at least their home city, San Fransokyo. Don Hall and Chris Williams directed.

ELSA & FRED Shirley MacLaine and Christopher Plummer, team for an it’s-never-too-late romantic comedy (based on a hit 2005 Argentine film). He’s a crabby widower who moves into a new apartment; she’s his ridiculously outgoing new neighbor, who has a longtime Fellini fantasy about the Trevi Fountain. With Marcia Gay Harden, James Brolin, George Segal and Chris Noth. Directed by Michael Radford (“Il Postino”).

FUGLY! John Leguizamo stars as a Latino ghetto nerd from the Bronx who finds himself, becomes a comedy and film star and is forced to reflect on the big questions after a near-death experience. With Ally Sheedy (as the agent who discovers him), Rosie Perez, Radha Mitchell and Griffin Dunne. Alfredo De Villa directed.

GETTING TO THE NUTCRACKER When you’re a kid, the annual Christmas production of “The Nutcracker” is the hottest role in ballet. Serene Meshel-Dillman’s documentary follows a group of young dancers at a Los Angeles ballet school preparing for the big show.

HANGAR 10  Some call it the Rendlesham Forest Hoax: In 1980, American servicemen in England reported seeing mysterious lights. But in Daniel Simpson’s sci-fi thriller, 30 years have passed and some people with metal detectors come upon U.F.O. fragments and, heaven help them, an alien presence.

THE INVISIBLE FRONT In 1944, when Soviet forces occupied Lithuania for the second time, young men and women formed a guerrilla movement and fought back. This documentary, directed by Vincas Sruoginis and Jonas Ohman, focuses on one of the group’s leaders, an architecture student named Juozas Luksa, and the resistance movement that challenged Moscow for decades.

JESSABELLE Ever feel that some strange force is pulling you back to your hometown? In this horror film directed by Kevin Greutert, Jessabelle (Sarah Snook) isn’t imagining it. When she returns to her Louisiana childhood home to recuperate from a car accident, a tormented spirit there decides she ought to stay — forever.

THE LOOKALIKE  John Corbett and Steven Bauer play crooks who have to keep their drug-lord boss happy. When the woman the boss is obsessed with dies, they set out to find someone who can pass for her. A crime thriller directed by Richard Gray. With Gillian Jacobs, Gina Gershon and Jerry O’Connell.

A MERRY FRIGGIN’ CHRISTMAS Robin Williams in what turned out to be his penultimate on-screen role. Williams and Joel McHale (of “Community” and “Talk Soup”) play father and son in this holiday comedy about a young dad who travels to Wisconsin to visit the house of his misfit relatives but cleverly forgets to bring his son’s gifts. Road trip! Candice Bergen and Lauren Graham play the wives. Directed by Tristram Shapeero.

ON ANY SUNDAY, THE NEXT CHAPTER Dana Brown’s follow-up to the 1971 documentary about motorcycle racing directed by his father, Bruce Brown.

OPEN WINDOWS A regular guy secretly watches a famous actress on her webcam in this cyber-stalker’s-eye drama directed by Nacho Vigalondo. Elijah Wood and Sasha Grey star.

PELICAN DREAMS Pelicans are off the endangered list, were considered sacred in Egyptian and Christian mythology and sometimes wear cute-and-goofy hairdos. This documentary, from the people who gave us “The Wild Parrots of Telegraph Hill,” includes the story of Gigi, a wayward California brown pelican (named for the Golden Gate Bridge, where she once created a major traffic jam), and her stint in wildlife rehab. Written and directed by Judy Irving.

SEASONS OF LOVE Taraji P. Henson and Method Man star in a holiday romance set in New York. Directed by Princess Monique, who was born in Cleveland.

SEX ED A romantic comedy about a virgin (Haley Joel Osment) who finds himself teaching middle school kids about the birds and the bees. On his first teaching job, he realizes his students know nothing — and aren’t going to learn anything reliable from parents or peers. Chris Williams plays the minister who disapproves of sex education in general. Lorenza Izzo is the appealing older sister of one of the students. Written by Bill Kennedy (“House of Cards”) and directed by Isaac Feder.

THE THEORY OF EVERYTHING Eddie Redmayne as Stephen Hawking. Mr. Redmayne, known to moviegoers as young Marius the student revolutionary in “Les Misérables” and to theatergoers for his Tony Award-winning role in “Red,” portrays Dr. Hawking (probably the only theoretical physicist and cosmologist in the world who needs no introduction) in his graduate-student days at Cambridge. There he received a devastating diagnosis of ALS and met Jane Wilde (Felicity Jones), who became his first wife and the mother of his three children. At 72, Dr. Hawking has now outlived his doctors’ original prognosis by half a century. James Marsh directed.

THE TOWER The last days of Communist East Germany, from Uwe Tellkamp’s prizewinning novel “The Tower: Tales From a Vanished Land.” The 1980s are seen through the eyes of one privileged family in suburban Dresden, giving dinner parties with live classical music and cheerful banter in the shadow of a police state. With Jan Josef Liefers, Claudia Michelsen and Sebastian Urzendowsky. Directed by Christian Schwochow.

21 YEARS: RICHARD LINKLATER It’s actually been 23 years between “Slacker” (1991), which made Mr. Linklater an indie-film darling, and “Boyhood” (2014), which broke new ground in shooting schedules. Michael Dunaway and Tara Wood directed this documentary-retrospective, including chats with Ethan Hawke, Julie Delpy, Matthew McConaughey, Billy Bob Thornton, Jack Black, Parker Posey and Zac Efron.

VIRUNGA A documentary about the struggle to protect a national park and endangered mountain gorillas in the Democratic Republic of Congo. The park’s rangers, risking their lives to fight off poachers and armed militia, include a Belgian conservationist and a former child soldier. Orlando von Einsiedel directed.

VIVA LA LIBERTÀ  What happens to Italian politicians when they give up hope? In this comic thriller from Italy, directed by Roberto Andò, one such man (Toni Servillo) has a nervous breakdown and runs away to Paris to live in hiding. Happily for his supporters back home, he has a twin brother in a mental institution who can be called on to save the day. With Valeria Bruni Tedeschi and Valerio Mastandrea.

WARSAW UPRISING Some documentaries use old newsreel footage; Jan Komasa’s is nothing but, chronicling the largest resistance-movement military action of World War II. Colorizing, restoration and added voices (thanks to contemporary lip readers) help tell the story of two months in 1944 when the people of Poland tried to bring down the Nazis on their own.

THE WAY HE LOOKS  From Brazil, a romantic coming-of-age drama about a blind teenage boy who wants to get away from his overprotective mom — until he meets the new kid in school, a really adorable guy. Never mind. Fabio Audio, Ghilherme Lobo and Tess Amorim star. Daniel Ribeiro wrote and directed.

WEST From Germany, a drama set in the late 1970s, a decade before the Berlin Wall came down. An East German woman fakes a marriage to a West German in order to escape but begins to worry that her ex-boyfriend isn’t really dead. Jördis Triebel, Alexander Scheer and Tristan Göbel star. From a mother-and-son team, Christian Schwochow, who directed, and Heide Schwochow, who wrote the screenplay.

WHY DON’T YOU PLAY IN HELL? From Japan, two feuding yakuza gangs fighting to the death while some young, would-be moviemakers film them. During the Venice Film Festival, The Telegraph of London described the picture as “a film in thrall to the gleeful disposability of Far Eastern junk cinema” and suggested that the director, Shion Son, had turned “its lack of substance into a virtue.” Fumi Nikaido and Jun Kunimura star.

NOV. 14

ALWAYS WOODSTOCK An aspiring young singer is fed up: Her record-label job is a dead end, her music-star client is a monster, and she finds her fiancé in bed with another woman. So she leaves the city and moves back to her family home in Woodstock, N.Y., which is, of course, like moving back to any other small town. Not. Allison Miller, Jason Ritter, Katey Sagal, Brittany Snow and Rumer Willis star. James Wolk (the strange Bob Benson on “Mad Men”) plays the handsome local doctor just waiting for her on Tinker Street. Rita Merson wrote and directed.

BAD TURN WORSE Three Texas teenagers find their old cotton-mill town boring (the film was originally called “We Gotta Get Out of This Place”), steal for thrills and party money but get into trouble with a crazy criminal (Mark Pellegrino, who was Jacob on “Lost”) and his money-laundering boss (William Devane). Jeremy Allen White, Mackenzie Davis and Logan Huffman are the young thieves. A crime thriller, directed by the brothers Simon Hawkins and Zeke Hawkins.

BESIDE STILL WATERS The Austin Film Festival gave this rom-com-dram, Chris Lowell’s directing debut, both the jury prize and the audience award. A young man (Ryan Eggold) comforts himself after his parents’ deaths by forcing his old friends to relive their glory days. With Beck Bennett (of “Saturday Night Live”), Brett Dalton and Will Brill.

BEYOND THE LIGHTS Gugu Mbatha-Raw (the British beauty who starred in “Belle”) plays a young singer who feels trapped by stardom and tries to escape by jumping off a balcony. Nate Parker is the police officer who saves her and falls in love with her. Minnie Driver is her hard-driving mother; Danny Glover is his disapproving father. Written and directed by Gina Prince-Bythewood, whose past film dramas include “Love & Basketball” and “The Secret Life of Bees.”

BRAHMIN BULLS A bummed-out Los Angeles man (Sendhil Ramamurthy) going through a divorce is surprised to find his estranged father (Roshan Seth) at his door, but a family reunion may not be in the cards. Dad is really in town to look up an old love (Mary Steenburgen). A family drama directed by the Minnesota-born, Maine-raised Mahesh Pailoor.

BUTTER ON THE LATCH Maybe young women with unstable psyches shouldn’t go to Balkan folk festivals. Or sing songs about women with dragons in their hair. Sarah (Sarah Small) stars as a visitor who gets carried away with her fantasies in this Josephine Decker film set in the forests of Mendocino, Calif.

DRUG LORD: THE LEGEND OF SHORTY When they caught Joaquín Guzmán Loera, the Mexican cartel leader, in his Mazatlán condo earlier this year, sleeping with an AK-47 beside his bed, he had been on the run from law enforcement for 13 years. Angus MacQueen’s documentary considers how Guzmán, known as El Chapo (Shorty), became Public Enemy No. 1 in Chicago but a folk hero to his own people.

DUMB AND DUMBER TO No, you haven’t already seen this; “Dumb and Dumberer” (2003) was a prequel. Everybody’s back for this sequel: Jim Carrey as Lloyd (who has not had his chipped tooth fixed), Jeff Daniels as Harry and the Farrelly brothers, who created the intellectually challenged characters. Lloyd and Harry are off on another road trip, 20 years later, this time to find Harry’s illegitimate daughter, because he needs a kidney transplant. Kathleen Turner joins the group as Fraida Felcher, the “babe who worked for the tractor company,” often discussed but never seen in the first film.

FOXCATCHER In noncomic mode, Steve Carell plays a vastly wealthy man — a du Pont, no less — who amuses himself by taking on an Olympic-hopeful wrestler (Channing Tatum) as his personal project. The wrestler loves living on the estate, but time and his more self-confident brother (Mark Ruffalo) prove that in a friendship with a rich person, the poor person always loses. Vanessa Redgrave, as the du Pont matriarch, disapproves of all of it. A drama from Bennett Miller, who directed “Capote.”

THE HOMESMAN Tommy Lee Jones directs Hilary Swank, Grace Gummer, Miranda Otto, John Lithgow and himself in this western drama based on a novel by Glendon Swarthout (who wrote, strangely, both “The Shootist” and “Where the Boys Are”). Ms. Swank’s character is transporting three women driven insane by men, death and pioneer life in general from the Nebraska Territories to Iowa. Mr. Jones is her rough-hewed covered-wagon driver. Ms. Gummer’s mother, Meryl Streep, appears briefly as a prim Methodist.

KILL DIL From India, an action romance about two killers, their mentor-in-crime and a woman who complicates everything. Ranveer Singh, Ali Zafar, Parineeti Chopra and Govinda star. Shaad Ali directed.

KIRK CAMERON’S SAVING CHRISTMAS Not saving Christmas like foiling the Grinch. Not saving Christmas like Edmund Gwenn’s 1947 Santa, who worried that the holiday had become too commercial, in “Miracle on 34th Street.” Saving Christmas as in having the hero (Mr. Cameron) grab a Scrooge type “by his seasonal sweater and show him Christ where Christ has always been,” in the words of the film’s publicity materials. And who ever thought we’d see Mr. Cameron, who didn’t even direct or write, with his name in the title? Darren Doane is the actual director.

LEVITATED MASS  Michael Heizer’s “Levitated Mass,” a two-story granite boulder, came from the desert and is now at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. Doug Pray’s documentary follows the big rock’s journey and public reaction (a mix of awe and outrage) to this example of “land art.”

LOVE HUNTER  You seriously never know who your taxi driver might be. Take Milan Mumin, the frontman of the ’90s Serbian rock band Love Hunters, who moved to New York in 2003 to start a solo career and ended up spending a lot of time in the front seats of Yellow Cabs. Mr. Mumin plays himself in this musical drama, filmed in New York and directed by the brothers Branislav Bala and Nemanja Bala.

MISS MEADOWS She wears flowery dresses and little white gloves and carries a ladylike purse. Katie Holmes plays the title role in this satire about a sweet schoolteacher who moves from town to town and job to job and, in her off hours, shoots people dead. But only bad people. James Badge Dale plays the sheriff who falls in love with her. Karen Leigh Hopkins wrote and directed.

OCCUPY THE FARM Protesters have chained themselves to gates, lain down in the street, refused to move from lunch-counter seats, even set themselves on fire. In 2012 the urban farmers in Todd Darling’s documentary just showed up with rototillers and planted some vegetables. It worked: The University of California, Berkeley, changed its mind about building a shopping mall and condo complex on 10 acres of East Bay farmland.

RED ARMY  Gabe Polsky’s documentary is about the Soviet Union’s remarkable hockey teams during the Cold War years. When the film was screened at Cannes, Manohla Dargis of The Times called it “one of the festival’s most pleasurable surprises.”

ROSEWATER This is why Jon Stewart took the summer off last year from “The Daily Show.” He makes his directing and screenwriting debut in this story (based on Maziar Bahari’s book “Then They Came for Me”) of a journalist who was held by Iranian authorities for more than 100 days, based partly on a “Daily Show” comedy sketch involving Mr. Bahari that they took at face value. Gael García Bernal plays Mr. Bahari. Shohreh Aghdashloo co-stars.

THOU WAST MILD AND LOVELY  Josephine Decker’s second film opening on the same day as her “Butter on the Latch” is set on a verdant Kentucky farm. A father and daughter are joined for the summer by a hired hand, and a romance begins. But oops, the man has a wife, and the story turns very ugly. Joe Swanberg, Sophie Traub, Robert Longstreet and Kristin Slaysman star.

WOLVES Feuding werewolves with a cute teenage boy caught in the middle. Lucas Till (Havok in the X-Men movies) stars as a young man on the run because he’s suspected of having murdered his parents. John Pyper-Ferguson plays the crazy guy he meets along the way, who leads him to the werewolves’ town. Jason Momoa (Drogo on “Game of Thrones”) gets hairy. Written and directed by David Hayter, who was a writer on “Watchmen” and some “X-Men” movies.

NOV. 19

BAD HAIR From Venezuela, the story of a 9-year-old boy whose family goes into homophobic panic because he wants to straighten his curly hair for his school photo. Samuel Lange Zambrano stars. Mariana Rondón wrote and directed.

HAPPY VALLEY  The child sex abuse scandal at Penn State in 2011 reached far and wide. Joe Paterno, the revered football coach, was fired and was dead two months later. Jerry Sandusky was sentenced to 30-60 years in prison. And then there were the 40,000 residents of State College, Pa., where it all happened. This documentary, directed by Amir Bar-Lev, questions whether the town’s longtime nickname, Happy Valley, still applies.

PULP: A FILM ABOUT LIFE, DEATH AND SUPERMARKETS As the Beatles are to Liverpool, the Britpop group Pulp is to Sheffield, England. In this documentary, directed by Florian Habicht, the band, led by Jarvis Cocker, does a hometown farewell concert, and the townspeople pay tribute.

NOV. 20

STORY OF MY DEATH  Finally, moviegoers have a chance to see Dracula and Casanova having a serious chat — in Catalan. Albert Serra wrote and directed this drama, which was part of the New Directors/New Films series.

NOV. 21

ALL RELATIVE Life as a young New York couple is beautiful for Harry and Grace (Jonathan Sadowski and Sara Paxton) until Grace’s parents come to visit. Her sexy mother (Connie Nielsen) is the problem. A romantic comedy directed by J. C. Khoury.

THE CIRCLE From Switzerland, a drama about gay life in the 1950s, told through the story of a mild-mannered teacher and a celebrity cross-dresser in love. Der Kreis (the Circle) is the pioneering gay rights organization they belong to. Directed by Stefan Haupt, the film won two documentary awards at the Berlin International Film Festival.

DEATH METAL ANGOLA A documentary about the healing power of heavy metal music in a multicultural southwest African nation. Directed by Jeremy Xido.

EXTRATERRESTRIAL  Attractive young people in a cabin in the woods. A fireball falls from the sky and explodes. It’s a spaceship, and the aliens appear to have survived the crash. Clearly the Vicious Brothers (as Colin Minihan, the director, and his co-writer, Stuart Ortiz, call themselves) have seen a few midcentury sci-fi thrillers. Brittany Allen stars as the requisite pretty college girl in distress, with Gil Bellows and Freddie Stroma.

FLAMENCO FLAMENCO  Carlos Saura’s tribute to the Spanish dance and folk music completely dispenses with dialogue and presents 21 musical numbers with only light and art (as in paintings by the likes of Goya and Klimt).

FOOD CHAINS The C.I.W. (Coalition of Immokalee Workers) message: If large grocery chains paid 2 cents more per bushel of tomatoes, it would mean fair wages and decent living conditions for farm workers. Eva Longoria and Eric Schlosser (the author of “Fast Food Nation”) appear in this documentary, narrated by Forest Whitaker and directed by Sanjay Rawal.

A GIRL WALKS HOME ALONE AT NIGHT An Iranian vampire romance-western. The vampire is a young woman in a hijab who has some surprises in store for the pimps and druggies who dominate a small town called Bad City. But Ana Lily Amirpour’s debut feature is also a feminist fable about vulnerability and revenge. Arash Marandi plays the one nice guy in town, and Sheila Vand (who was in “Argo”) is the monster. Filmed in Farsi in California, this was the opening-night attraction at the 2014 New Directors/New Films series.

THE HUNGER GAMES: MOCKINGJAY — PART 1  Katniss is back in District 13 and just needs to save the country (is a major revolution ahead?). The cast from the first two films returns, led by Jennifer Lawrence and including Liam Hemsworth, Josh Hutcherson, Donald Sutherland, Julianne Moore, Woody Harrelson, Elizabeth Banks, Jeffrey Wright and Stanley Tucci. Philip Seymour Hoffman is back, too, as Plutarch Heavensbee, having filmed most of his role before he died in February. Francis Lawrence returns as director. Part 2 is scheduled for release in fall 2015.

THE KING AND THE MOCKINGBIRD Paul Grimault’s 1947 French hand-drawn animated feature, “Le Roi et l’Oiseau,” based on Hans Christian Andersen’s “The Shepherdess and the Chimney Sweep,” finally has a real American release, after decades of legal and creative battles. (It was shown at the New York Film Festival last month.) Grimault’s co-screenwriter was the poet Jacques Prévert.

LATE PHASES A thriller set in a retirement community where sinister creatures are coming out of the surrounding forest and doing very bad things. Nobody likes Crescent Bay’s abrasive new resident (Nick Damici), a grizzled war veteran, but maybe he’s just the guy to deal with this. The cast also includes Ethan Embry, Tina Louise, Lance Guest and Tom Noonan. Adrián García Bogliano directed.

MONK WITH A CAMERA: THE LIFE AND JOURNEY OF NICHOLAS VREELAND  What on earth would the Vogue grande dame Diane Vreeland make of this? Mr. Vreeland, her grandson, trained to be a photographer but gave up his glamorous New York life in 1972 to move to India and become a Buddhist monk. Richard Gered the Dalai Lama make appearances in this documentary by Guido Santi and Tina Mascara.

THE MULE Angus Sampson stars in this darkly comic Australian thriller about a first-time drug mule who is detained by the police and determined to withhold the evidence. Hugo Weaving (with an impressive 1980s mustache) co-stars. Tony Mahony and Mr. Sampson directed.

REACH ME The latest hot self-help book is about six basic fears. And in this drama, its once-reclusive author (Tom Berenger) is suddenly pursued by humanity en masse. The large cast includes Sylvester Stallone (as an editor in a hipster hat), Danny Aiello, Cary Elwes, Kyra Sedgwick, Kelsey Grammer, Thomas Jane and Lauren Cohan. John Herzfeld wrote and directed.

THE SLEEPWALKER Happy, happy Kaia and Andrew (Gitte Witt and Christopher Abbott) are blissfully restoring her family’s country house when Kaia’s disturbed sister (Stephanie Ellis) turns up out of nowhere, followed by her boyfriend (Brady Corbet). At which point Mona Fastvold’s horror-tinged psychosexual drama, which was the subject of lots of buzz at Sundance, turns its attention to repressed memories, childhood trauma and the dark side of somnambulism.

STONES IN THE SUN Patricia Benoit’s political drama about Haitians in New York is made up of interlocking stories, including that of an antigovernment radio show host reunited with his estranged father. The cast includes Edwidge Danticat, Michele Marcelin and Thierry Saintine.

VALLEY OF SAINTS  Love on an abandoned Dal Lake houseboat amid violence and unrest in Kashmir, on the India-Pakistan border. Written and directed by Musa Syeed, the film won two 2012 awards at Sundance. Starring Mohammed Afzal, Gulzar Ahmed Bhat and Neelofar Hamid.

V/H/S: VIRAL This, the second sequel to a 2012 horror anthology film, has multiple directors, even more writers and various segments, including “Gorgeous Vortex,” “Dante the Great” and “Parallel Monsters.”

NOV. 26

HORRIBLE BOSSES 2 Three homicidal disgruntled employees (Jason Bateman, Jason Sudeikis and Charlie Day) decide to start their own business, but when their big investor (Christoph Waltz) betrays them, their solution is to kidnap his son (Chris Pine). Jennifer Aniston, Kevin Spacey and Jamie Foxx do reprise their roles from the first movie. A crime comedy, directed by Sean Anders.

PENGUINS OF MADAGASCAR They’re aquatic, they’re flightless, they’re animated, and now they’re spies. New voices include those of Benedict Cumberbatch as the head of an international espionage organization and John Malkovich as the octopus villain. Directed by Eric Darnell, who also directed the first three “Madagascar” pictures, and Simon J. Smith.

NOV. 28

ANTARCTICA: A YEAR ON ICE Oh, big deal, Richard Linklater — filming “Boyhood” over a 12-year period. Anthony Powell says he spent 15 years shooting this documentary about what it’s like living at a research station on the planet’s southernmost continent (98 percent of it covered with mile-thick ice).

THE BABADOOK In this Australian horror drama, a young widow (Essie Davis) is told by experts that “all children see monsters.” But the fears of her 7-year-old (Noah Wiseman) seem extreme, and they all seem to lead back to a certain scary storybook. Is the house really haunted? Or is this a mother-and-son folie à deux? Jennifer Kent wrote and directed.

BEFORE I DISAPPEAR  Right in the middle of his suicide attempt, a depressed New Yorker gets a call from his estranged sister, who desperately needs him to look after her 11-year-old daughter. Things gets worse from there. Shawn Christensen wrote, directed and stars in this drama, alongside Emmy Rossum, Ron Perlman, Paul Wesley and Fatima Ptacek.

THE IMITATION GAME Maybe you’ve heard L.G.B.T. leaders say, “A gay man won World War II.” This is the guy. Benedict Cumberbatch plays Alan Turing, the British mathematician and overall genius who led the team that broke the Nazis’ Enigma Code. After the war, a grateful nation prosecuted him for homosexual acts, and he died, apparently by suicide, in 1954. With Keira Knightley, Charles Dance and Matthew Goode. Morten Tyldum directed.

THE IMMORTALISTS  The American scientist is a health-conscious runner; the British one swills beer. Both are devoted to finding a way for us all to live forever, and this documentary, from David Alvarado and Jason Sussberg, examines their theories.

REMOTE AREA MEDICAL Just how desperate many Americans are for medical attention is the subject of this documentary by Jeff Reichert and Farihah Zaman. The proof is a three-day free mobile clinic set up at a speedway in Tennessee, at which 2,000 patients, some of whom have not been to a doctor or a dentist for decades, are treated.

TOUCH THE WALL Two Olympic swimmers, Missy Franklin and Kara Lynn Joyce, support each other — until they part — in Christo Brock and Grant Barbeito’s documentary.

December 

DEC. 3 

ZERO MOTIVATION From Israel, a comedy about women in the Israeli Army (its human resources department, actually) bored to death on a remote desert military base. They play video games, make coffee and settle their differences with staple-gun violence. Talya Lavie wrote, directed and took home a narrative-feature award from the Tribeca Film Festival.

DEC. 5 

THE BAREFOOT ARTIST Born in China and living in Philadelphia, Lily Yeh is an artist known for her public installations. This documentary, which shows her working with victims of war and other trauma to help them express their emotions through murals and sculpture, is directed by Daniel Traub (Ms. Yeh’s son) and Glenn Holsten.

ESCOBAR: PARADISE LOST Benicio Del Toro plays Pablo Escobar, the Colombian drug lord (1949-93), in this family drama directed by Andrea Di Stefano. Josh Hutcherson (Peeta in “The Hunger Games”) is a young surfer who meets the love of his life (Claudia Traisac), then learns that her uncle is Escobar and that the family business (cocaine) always has room for one more.

THE FOXY MERKINS A comic buddy film about a lesbian who hopes to make a living as a hooker and the self-confident straight woman she meets who is better at picking up women than she is. Madeleine Olnek wrote and directed.

INSIDE THE MIND OF LEONARDO IN 3-D  You thought Leonardo da Vinci kept just journals and notebooks with his astounding 16th-century artistic and scientific ideas? No. He also made shopping lists and wrote down dirty jokes. Peter Capaldi (known to television viewers as the newest Dr. Who), playing Leonardo, uses all manner of sources to tell the man’s story in his own words in this directed by Julian Jones. Many of Leonardo’s works are shown in 3-D.

LIFE PARTNERS Can a straight girl and a lesbian be best friends? Sasha and Paige have been. But they’re 29 now and it had to happen: Paige gets serious with a man, and Sasha panics at the prospect of being abandoned. Starring Leighton Meester (as the panicked one), Gillian Jacobs and Adam Brody, with Gabourey Sidibe, Mark Feuerstein and a couple of “Saturday Night Live” regulars (Kate McKinnon and Abby Elliott) in the supporting cast. Susanna Fogel directed.

MURDER OF A CAT Greg Kinnear, Blythe Danner, Nikki Reed and J. K. Simmons star in this suburban comedy about a creepy guy (Fran Kranz) whose pet is killed. Setting out to find the murderer, the first thing he learns is that the cat was leading a double life. Gillian Greene directed.

NIGHT WILL FALL Nobody was expecting a new Hitchcock film this year. Andre Singer is listed as the director of this documentary, but most of the footage was shot by Alfred Hitchcock and Sidney Bernstein in 1945. The idea was to show the full extent of the atrocities that Allied forces had found when they liberated the Nazi camps, but someone decided the film might not be conducive to Anglo-German reconciliation. Four decades later, a film can marked “F3080” was found in a London museum. This is the first time the full film inside (newly restored) has been released.

PIONEER A conspiracy thriller set during the Norwegian oil boom of the 1980s. Aksel Hennie plays a diver sent on a dangerous mission. Wes Bentley, Stephen Lang and Max Manus also star. Erik Skjoldbjaerg directed.

POKER NIGHT A thriller that proves it pays to listen to your elders. When a young Indiana police detective (Beau Mirchoff) is kidnapped and tortured by a serial killer, he makes a plan to survive by using the wisdom he’s picked up from the more experienced cops around the card table. With Ron Perlman, Giancarlo Esposito and Titus Welliver. Greg Francis wrote and directed.

POVERTY INC.  “Fighting poverty is big business” is the advertising tag line for Michael Matheson Miller’s documentary, which looks at who is really benefiting by Americans’ longtime efforts to help the needy, locally and around the world.

THE PYRAMID American archaeologists learn there’s a previously unknown pyramid hidden beneath the Egyptian desert, the biggest structure of its kind ever. In this action thriller directed by Grégory Levasseur, they go to explore it but get lost in the catacombs and soon realize someone is hunting them. Ashley Hinshaw, James Buckley and Denis O’Hare star.

SHE’S BEAUTIFUL WHEN SHE’S ANGRY The 1960s-into-'70s wave of the feminist movement, nicknamed women’s lib, wasn’t led by Gloria Steinem alone. This documentary by Mary Dore reflects on some remarkable women, including the members of Witch (Women’s International Terrorist Conspiracy From Hell), and looks at the “war on women” raging today.

SKATING TO NEW YORK  Everybody comes of age in his or her own way. In this adventure, five teenage boys in a small Canadian town decide to ice-skate across Lake Ontario right into the Empire State. And then what — a glamorous weekend in Oswego? The young cast includes Connor Jessup, Wesley Morgan and Gage Munroe. Charles Minsky directed.

STILL ALICE Julianne Moore stars in this drama as a linguistics professor who begins to forget words. Her family’s worst fears are realized (it’s early-onset Alzheimer’s disease), and what’s ahead isn’t easy for anybody. Alec Baldwin plays the husband; Kristen Stewart, Kate Bosworth and Hunter Parrish are the kids. Directed by Richard Glatzer and Wash Westmoreland.

TOP FIVE An all-Chris Rock extravaganza. He wrote, directed and stars in this comedy about a stand-up comic whose fiancée, a reality-TV personality, persuades him to televise their forthcoming wedding.

WILD Heroin and cheap sex weren’t really working for Cheryl Strayed as comfort after her mother’s death and the breakup of her marriage, so she set out on an 1,100-mile solo hike near the Pacific Coast to find herself. The novelist and screenwriter Nick Hornby has adapted her best-selling memoir about the experience. Reese Witherspoon stars as Ms. Strayed. Jean-Marc Vallée, who directed “Dallas Buyers Club,” is in the director’s seat.

DEC. 12

AFTER THE FALL You lose your job, you don’t want to give up everything you hold dear, so you turn to crime. Wes Bentley stars as a family man who makes that choice. Saar Klein directed this thriller, formerly called “Things People Do,” which also stars Vinessa Shaw (as Mr. Bentley’s wife) and Jason Isaacs.

THE CAPTIVE From Atom Egoyan, a kidnapping drama with Ryan Reynolds (beard, baseball cap, pickup truck) as a guilty dad who has just left his little daughter alone for a minute while he ran into the diner to get ice cream. With Scott Speedman and Rosario Dawson.

THE COLOR OF TIME  A poet’s life as told through his poems. James Franco stars as C. K. Williams, the New Jersey-born Pulitzer Prize and National Book Award winner, now in his late 70s. Mila Kunis plays his wife, and Jessica Chastain, in midcentury flashbacks, is his mother. The film’s 11 directors include Brooke Goldfinch and Bruce Thierry Cheung.

DO YOU KNOW WHAT MY NAME IS?  A “senior care network” in Cleveland has impressive results with learning therapy — reading aloud and doing simple math problems — developed in Japan to help dementia patients. Naomi Kazama and Shigeru Ota directed this documentary.

EXODUS: GODS AND KINGS Back to ancient Egypt with the men who directed “Blade Runner,” wrote “Schindler’s List” and starred in “American Psycho.” At 40, Christian Bale plays Moses in the biblical story of one adopted kid’s battle to free his people from slavery. With Joel Edgerton (as Rameses), Sigourney Weaver, Ben Kingsley, Aaron Paul and John Turturro. Ridley Scott directed, Steven Zaillian did the screenplay, and it’s safe to say that the special effects will be more spectacular than when Charlton Heston parted the Red Sea in the ’50s.

INHERENT VICE Paul Thomas Anderson follows “The Master” and “There Will Be Blood” with a visit to Southern California in the 1970s, via Thomas Pynchon’s novel. Joaquin Phoenix stars as Doc Sportello, a marijuana-dependent detective on the case of an ex-girlfriend who has disappeared. The almost-all-star cast includes Reese Witherspoon, Josh Brolin, Benicio Del Toro, Owen Wilson, Jena Malone, Katherine Waterston (daughter of Sam) and Sasha Pieterse. This was the centerpiece of the New York Film Festival.

ISN’T IT DELICIOUS The revered stage actress Kathleen Chalfant stars as a New England matriarch with lung cancer who sets out to fix all her messed-up relationships before she dies. It’s a better use of her time than chemotherapy, she decides. With Keir Dullea, Alice Ripley, Mia Dillon, Malachy McCourt and Robert LuPone. Michael Patrick Kelly directed.

JAMES WAN PRESENTS DEMONIC A group of college students play ghost hunter in an abandoned house that’s rumored to be haunted, and five end up dying horrible deaths. Maria Bello and Frank Grillo star as the psychologist and the detective who investigate. James Wan, who wrote the story, is a Malaysian filmmaker who directed “Saw” and “The Conjuring.” Will Canon directed.

A LITTLE GAME A 10-year-old girl whose grandmother has died learns all kinds of life lessons from a grumpy old chess player in Washington Square Park. F. Murray Abraham and Makenna Ballard star, supported by Olympia Dukakis, Janeane Garofalo, Rachel Dratch and Ralph Macchio. Written and directed by Evan Oppenheimer.

MAGICIAN: THE ASTONISHING LIFE AND WORK OF ORSON WELLES He was 25 when he made “Citizen Kane,” and his fall from grace is the stuff of Hollywood mythology. Chuck Workman’s documentary includes interviews with Steven Spielberg, Martin Scorsese and Richard Linklater; Welles’s own observations; and clips from his films, including unfinished works like the avant-garde “The Other Side of the Wind.” Welles died in 1985.

THE SALT OF THE EARTH  Wim Wenders honors the work of the Brazilian-born Paris photographer Sebastião Salgado. This documentary, directed by Mr. Wenders and Juliano Ribeiro Salgado (the subject’s son), won the Un Certain Regard special jury prize at Cannes.

SIX DANCE LESSONS IN SIX WEEKS  If you’re going to be a retired lady living alone in Florida and you’re going to hire a private dance instructor, he might as well look like Cheyenne Jackson. Gena Rowlands and Mr. Jackson star in this love-hate comedy based on Richard Alfieri’s play (Polly Bergen and Mark Hamill played the lead roles on Broadway). Arthur Allan Seidelman directed.

THEO’S HOUSE  Two Finnish architects argue about whether they were right to build concrete towers in the 1980s, and one decides to build his dream home.

DEC. 17

THE HOBBIT: THE BATTLE OF THE FIVE ARMIES Our last visit to Middle Earth, they say. We come to the end of Peter Jackson’s second Tolkien trilogy, with Bilbo, Gandalf and an army of dwarves setting out to regain the lost dwarf kingdom of Erebor — in 3-D and Imax, should you so choose. Familiar faces include Ian McKellen, Cate Blanchett, Richard Armitage, Martin Freeman, Orlando Bloom and Christopher Lee. With Benedict Cumberbatch as the dragon.

IF YOU DON’T, I WILL Cinquante (50) ways to leave your lover. Pomme (Emmanuelle Devos) and Pierre (Mathieu Amalric) have been together forever, and the magic is long gone. One day on a hike, Pomme just announces that she’s not going home with Pierre afterward; she’s going to stay in the woods and think and decide what to do next with her life. A French comic drama written and directed by Sophie Fillières.

DEC. 19

ANNIE America’s most musical comic-strip orphan is back, and this time she’s Quvenzhané Wallis, the adorable little girl who won an Oscar nomination for “Beasts of the Southern Wild.” Jamie Foxx plays Benjamin Stacks (you know, like Daddy Warbucks), a New York billionaire who’s running for mayor and takes in Annie as a foster child to bolster his campaign. With Cameron Diaz (as the sadistic orphanage director Miss Hannigan), Bobby Cannavale and Rose Byrne. Everybody sings and dances about the things they love and hate and want, and most of all tomorrow. Will Gluck (whose last feature was the more adult-oriented “Friends With Benefits”) directed.

THE GAMBLER A painfully thin Mark Wahlberg stars as an English lit professor with a colossal gambling problem. A remake (but with a brand-new script) of the 1974 film, which starred James Caan. Rupert Wyatt (whose last was “Rise of the Planet of the Apes”) directed the new one, with a supporting cast that includes Jessica Lange as the professor’s mother, John Goodman as a loan shark and Brie Larson.

LIFE OF AN ACTRESS: THE MUSICAL Three of them, struggling in New York, all connected with the same greasy-spoon diner. And even the diner has financial problems. The cast includes Orfeh, Taylor Louderman and Allison Case. Paul Chau directed, presenting musical numbers like “He Wants to Be an Accountant,” “Talent & Determination” and “I Wish I Was SAG.”

MR. TURNER Mike Leigh, the auteur-king of improv-realism, returns to Victorian England for the first time since “Topsy-Turvy” (1999), with a tale of J. M. W. Turner, the eccentric British landscape painter and snuff addict. In the last two decades of his life, Turner (Timothy Spall, who won the best actor award this year at Cannes for this) tries to numb his grief over his father’s death with travel, brothel visits, country weekends with aristocrats and the occasional tumble in the hay with his long-suffering housekeeper (Dorothy Atkinson), who worships him. With Leigh favorites including Marion Bailey (as the widow who becomes Turner’s mistress in his twilight years), Ruth Sheen and Lesley Manville.

NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM: SECRET OF THE TOMB In this third “Night at the Museum” film, directed by Shawn Levy, Larry (Ben Stiller) has to go to London to save the magic that makes museum exhibits come to life at night. Some old friends, including Teddy Roosevelt (Robin Williams in what may be his last big-screen appearance), come along. Ben Kingsley turns up at the British Museum as an Egyptian pharaoh and Dan Stevens (that “Downton Abbey” heartthrob again) is Sir Lancelot. Rebel Wilson, from “Bridesmaids,” is a British security guard with some prejudices against Americans. With Owen Wilson, Ricky Gervais and Mickey Rooney, who died in April.

SAGRADA In 1882, the Roman Catholics of Barcelona, Spain, decided to build a grand basilica. In 1883, they hired an architect, Antoni Gaudí. Gaudí died 88 years ago, and the church — part Gothic, part Art Nouveau, part wedding cake — is the city’s most popular unfinished tourist attraction. Stefan Haupt’s documentary looks at the church’s history and talks to the people still working on it.

A SMALL SECTION OF THE WORLD  When the husbands and the sons leave their Costa Rican village to look for work in hard times, the women left behind brainstorm and start a coffee-growing collective. Lesley Chilcott’s documentary tells their story.

SONG OF THE SEA The selkies, in Irish and Scottish folklore, are humans on land but turn into seals in the sea. This international animated fantasy is a tale of the last of the seal-children, a girl on a mission. With the voices of Fionnula Flanagan and Brendan Gleeson, and directed by Tomm Moore (“The Secret of Kells”).

WINTER SLEEP Winner of this year’s Palme d’Or at Cannes, the highest honor on the international film festival circuit. In this Turkish drama, a retired actor turned hotelier (Haluk Bilginer) ponders his marriage (Melisa Sozen plays his much younger wife, politically active but emotionally distant), his sister’s divorce, life, death and wealth disparity. When Manohla Dargis of The Times saw the film at Cannes, she mentioned “Chekhovian talkathons” and an “eerily beautiful” setting (snow-covered mountains in Central Anatolia). Nuri Bilge Ceylan directed.

DEC. 24

BELOVED SISTERS One is unhappily married, the other is single and shy, and in late-18th-century Germany they both love Friedrich Schiller. Schiller — the poet, philosopher, playwright (“The Robbers”) and general hothead — marries one and lives complicatedly ever after with both in a picturesque period ménage à trois but gets enough work done to publish “William Tell.” Florian Stetter, Hannah Herzsprung and Henriette Confurius star in this German-Austrian romantic drama, written and directed by Dominik Graf.

DEC. 25

AMERICAN SNIPER Clint Eastwood directs and Bradley Cooper stars in the story of Chris Kyle, a Texas-born sniper for the Navy SEALs whose extraordinary skills during four tours of duty in Iraq earned him the nickname the Devil of Ramadi. Based largely on Mr. Kyle’s autobiography of the same title, the film also features Sienna Miller as his wife and Vincent Selhorst-Jones as a disturbed young war veteran Mr. Kyle tried to help.

BIG EYES Tim Burton’s latest is about the midcentury artist who drew those waifs with gigantic doe eyes. Christoph Waltz, the two-time Oscar winner, stars as Walter Keane, who took the credit for the kitschy paintings, which were reproduced seemingly everywhere. Amy Adams is his wife, Margaret, who actually did the work and challenged him to a paint-off in court to prove it. The Keanes divorced. With Danny Huston, Jason Schwartzman and Terence Stamp.

THE INTERVIEW If there is no such thing as bad publicity, Seth Rogen and James Franco must be ecstatic that in June the North Korean government declared the coming release of this comedy a “blatant act of terrorism” and promised to “mercilessly destroy” anyone who attacked the country’s supreme leader. In the film, Mr. Rogen and Mr. Franco play two goofballs who do a cheesy tabloid-celebrity TV show but land an interview with the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un (Randall Park), because the guy’s a big fan. But then the C.I.A. decides the guys should assassinate Mr. Kim while they’re there, since they’re so stupid no one will ever suspect them. Mr. Rogen and Evan Goldberg (who got his start as a writer on “Da Ali G Show”) directed.

INTO THE WOODS Stephen Sondheim’s beautifully bleak 1987 Broadway musical, about fairy tale characters from various stories coming together and suffering and not always being satisfied with their happy endings, is finally a movie, with a screenplay by its book writer, James Lapine. Meryl Streep is the bitter, salad-loving witch destined for a makeover. Anna Kendrick is Cinderella. Chris Pine is her prince. And Johnny Depp is the wolf who lives near Red Riding Hood’s grandmother. Rob Marshall directed. Disney is releasing, and the report is that some of the doom and gloom (and sex) may have been cleaned up a bit.

SELMA  It was March 1965, 50 years ago this spring, when civil rights protesters started out from Selma, Ala., to walk to the state’s capital, Montgomery, in support of voting rights for African-Americans. Blood was spilled. It took three attempts. But the march finally succeeded and led to President Lyndon B. Johnson’s signing of the 1965 Voting Rights Act. David Oyelowo (from “The Butler”) stars as the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., with Tom Wilkinson as L.B.J., Carmen Ejogo as Coretta Scott King, Tim Roth as Gov. George Wallace, Andre Holland as Andrew Young and Colman Domingo as Ralph Abernathy. Ava DuVernay directed.

TWO DAYS ONE NIGHT Your co-workers may like you, but how much? Marion Cotillard’s character finds out in this French drama from the brothers Jean-Pierre Dardenne and Luc Dardenne, two-time Palme d’Or winners (for “The Child” and “Rosetta”). Poor Sandra (Ms. Cotillard) returns from sick leave to be told that she’s going to be fired, and the only way to avoid that is to talk her colleagues (over the weekend) into giving up their bonuses.

UNBROKEN Angelina Jolie directs this World War II story of Louis Zamperini (Jack O’Connell), a track star at the 1936 Berlin Olympics who survived a near-fatal plane crash, 47 days on a raft in enemy waters and two years in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp. With Garrett Hedlund, Finn Wittrock and Domhnall Gleeson. Mr. Zamperini died in July in Los Angeles at the age of 97.

TALES OF THE GRIM SLEEPER  Nick Broomfield (“Kurt & Courtney,” “Biggie and Tupac”) chose a prolific serial killer as his newest documentary subject. Lonnie Franklin Jr., arrested in 2010, may have been able to get away with a 25-year murder spree because the Los Angeles police didn’t pay major attention to the deaths of his victims, many of them prostitutes and drug addicts.

DEC. 31

LEVIATHAN This Russian drama won the best screenplay award at Cannes. Written by Andrey Zvyagintsev (who also directed) and Oleg Negin, it follows the battle between a happy family-man auto repair shop owner and the corrupt mayor who wants to take away his business and his land. Starring Aleksey Serebryakov, Roman Madyanov and Vladimir Vdovichenkov.

A MOST VIOLENT YEAR The year is 1981, the setting is New York, and this crime drama is about an immigrant family trying to get ahead in the middle of urban turmoil. Starring Oscar Isaac of “Inside Llewyn Davis” and Jessica Chastain of everything. Directed by J. C. Chandor, whose résumé so far includes “All Is Lost” and “Margin Call.”

Compiled with the assistance of Suzanne O’Connor.

Death in the blockbusters of 2013 played out something like this:

“I’m scared, Spock,” Captain Kirk says to his hyperlogical space pal halfway through his four-minute death scene in “Star Trek Into Darkness.” It’s heavy. Eyes are brimming with tears. The score swells mournfully. Kirk dies. Spock yells. Cue confrontation with the bad guy, a spaceship destroying half of San Francisco and a huge climactic finale.

Another example: “I’ll catch you, I promise,” Tony Stark says to Pepper Potts, as she dangles precariously from a crane in “Iron Man 3.” Stark breaks his promise, and Potts falls to her death. The score swells. Eyes brim with tears. Cue confrontation with the bad guy, a cavalcade of C.G.I. explosions and a huge climactic finale.

Also: “I’m sorry,” Loki says to Thor as he lies dying, having sacrificed himself to save the universe in “Thor: The Dark World.” Eyes tear, score swells, Loki dies, Thor yells. Some moments later, cue confrontation with the bad guy, the destruction of the Old Royal Naval College in London and a huge climactic finale.

Blur your eyes, and they might have all been the same tedious, manipulative movie. I felt nothing watching these characters disappear off-screen, hurtling toward whatever lies beyond. I’m no sociopath. The problem is that death at the movies has died. The movie industry has corrupted one of cinema’s — if not all of fiction’s — most emotionally taxing moments into hollow formula, the kind of thing that passes in the blink of a plot point leading to a literal, if not figurative, explosive finale that takes up half the budget. Considering this, it’s odd that death’s killer is the new, risk-averse economic logic of Hollywood.

To be sure, part of the problem is that we’ve seen it all before. Of course action films have saccharine subplots that exist only to lend meaning to their staggering body counts. But in recent years, killing a major character in your average blockbuster has become inert thanks to the increasing use of formulas to create stakes. Take, for example, Blake Snyder’s wildly popular screenwriting guide, “Save the Cat!: The Last Book on Screenwriting You’ll Ever Need.” Snyder provides step-by-step instructions, as a Lego set does, on how to assemble the necessary 15 pieces of a movie, with each piece representing an important moment in a script (“Set-up,” “Midpoint,” “Bad Guys Close In”) that, when snapped together in the right order, builds the ideal movie. In Synder’s methodology, the death of a major character has a name: The “All Is Lost” moment. When a movie needs to convey a sense of “total defeat” forits protagonist and to its audience, Snyder prescribes administering “the whiff of death.” He writes, “Stick in something, anything that involves a death . . . [because it] will resonate and make that ‘All Is Lost’ moment all the more poignant.”

A Slate article from last year argued that Snyder’s formula has increasingly become dogma in Hollywood, rendering all blockbusters alike. Whether “Save the Cat!” is actually used by screenwriters or merely draws from the repetitive architecture of today’s tent poles is difficult to say. But it doesn’t matter. Filmmakers don’t seem to realize that plot mechanics are no shortcut to pathos.

It’s not unreasonable to expect emotional complexity from blockbuster films, nor is it impossible. Look at “Attack the Block” (2011), a quintessential blockbuster at heart (if not in budget or box office), in which each death — there are many — hits the viewer hard, because the filmmakers put in the effort to make sure it would. Think of some of the all-time greatest movie deaths: Obi-Wan Kenobi in “Star Wars.” Roy Batty in “Blade Runner.” Mufasa in “The Lion King.” Artax the Horse in “The Neverending Story.” Thelma and Louise in “Thelma & Louise.” Marion Crane in “Psycho.” Bambi’s mother in “Bambi.” Vincent Vega in “Pulp Fiction.” Spock in “Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan.” Boromir in “The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring.” Tracy’s head in “Seven.” Maximus in “Gladiator.” Even something like Harry Stamper’s sappy demise in “Armageddon” — the most bombastic of blockbusters, a Michael Bay movie — plucked at a heartstring or two.

You don’t see that when Snyderian logic is at work in “Iron Man 3.” Potts’s death is a completely pro forma affair. Stark is given literally seconds to mourn before he is scooted right back into the action. It renders the moment so inconsequential, so blink-and-you’d-miss-it, that you can almost hear the writer’s pencil scratch, “Motivation for Iron Man to unleash hellfire and justify explosive C.G.I. bonanza” off the to-do list. How is an audience supposed to feel that a death matters when the movie doesn’t bother to lend it meaning? Writers are so focused on finding ways to give us crowd-pleasing destructive pyrotechnics that they undermine the required emotional setups without even realizing it. Death has become a mere transition device.

By contrast, Captain Kirk’s death at least aims for emotional resonance, lending it the full weight of its actors’ tears. Still, the moment is so transparently formulaic that its attempt to convince us of its gravity feels patronizing — all the more so because it’s impossible to believe it’s anything but a bluff. We know the “Star Trek” universe, so triumphantly rebooted, isn’t going to kill off its hero. It’s the worst kind of bluff: one so obvious, the bluffer can’t even commit.

That’s because neither Captain Kirk nor Pepper Potts actually dies (ditto Loki). These are not the routine fake-out deaths we’re used to: a character shot in the chest reveals a Kevlar vest, a drowned character bubbles up water after a few seconds of worry, a Batman explodes in a nuclear blast then resurfaces at an outdoor cafe in Italy. No, in 2013 characters were dead-dead, then . . . not so much.

Potts returns superpowered and totally fine; Kirk is resurrected by Khan’s superblood; Loki reappears, assuming the form of his father, Odin. It was a banner year for such Lazarus acts: Michelle Rodriguez died in the fourth “Fast & Furious,” only to come back alive, but amnesiac, in “Fast & Furious 6”; Patrick Stewart’s Professor X — who died in “X-Men: The Last Stand” — appears resurrected at the very end of “The Wolverine”; Tom Cruise dies in a gigantic explosion in “Oblivion,” but don’t worry, here comes a clone for the happy ending; “The Lone Ranger” kills off Armie Hammer early in the movie, digs him a grave and then has a white spirit horse that apparently resurrects him; then there’s Agent Coulson’s death in “The Avengers” which begot a television resurrection in 2013 on “Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.”

Formula may have atrophied death at the movies, but resurrection has killed it. And an unholy coalition between comic-book publishers and an economically weakened Hollywood is to blame.

Perhaps you’ve noticed that your local multiplex might as well be Comic Con. Amid rapid shifts in the media-buying public’s preferences, comic-book adaptations have proved incredibly lucrative for movie studios, practically becoming Hollywood’s main business model. They’re an ideal medium for an industry constantly looking for ways to tap into built-in audiences and spin out endless sequels. Comics are never-ending serials with decades’ worth of fans and stories to draw from, and Hollywood can build upon that, making its own serial stories and movies, creating loyal, invested audiences who will always show up. This has helped sequelitis shed its reputation as a symptom of creative bankruptcy, recasting it as ambitious world building.

Serialized storytelling isn’t the only thing that has made its way from comics to the movies. The timing of the rise of resurrection in blockbusters is no accident — it’s an inheritance. Along with the rise of superhero movies came comic books’ notorious revolving-door attitude toward death. Given the medium’s sprawling, practically interminable story lines, publishers like Marvel and DC Comics often need ways to bring major upheaval to their worlds. So they kill off major characters. Superman, Spider-Man, the Flash, Green Arrow, Green Lantern and Captain America have all died — at least temporarily. But Marvel and DC are financially dependent on characters that are too popular to leave dead. As a result, death to comic readers has become something of a joke: a tolerated pretense that means nothing more than a cash grab (buy the issue where Captain America dies!). A character’s demise allows the publisher to hype their resurrection (buy the issue where Captain America comes back!) or at least facilitate the sustained financial draw of a popular character.

Death is no longer just a transparent formula; it has been hybridized with something worse: Business strategy. There is no greater force in the world for wringing the passion out of human affairs than the desiccating logic of quarterly earnings reports. Of course, Hollywood has always been a business.

But unlike a strategically placed Pepsi product, killing death threatens to undermine the movie business’s reason for being.

Perhaps this loss might seem inconsequential — maybe even welcome — to some. After all, it’s easy to argue that we seek these escapist entertainments to avoid the preoccupations of everyday life — worrying about our mortality, for example. But movies like those in Christopher Nolan’s “Dark Knight” trilogy — with their thoughts on the security state, terrorism and the power of mythology — prove that you can entertain audiences while actually commenting on the world we live in. No matter how much movies or comics depart into realities with superpowered beings, technologically advanced futures or fantastical worlds full of impossible creatures, they still need to do what all good stories should: Tell us something about being human. But most of today’s movies are telling us death doesn’t matter. And it’s hard to imagine a more inhuman observation than that.

In March 1988, when Tom Wolfe’s “The Bonfire of the Vanities” was parked at the top of the best-seller list, 962 Fifth Avenue was known to seemingly everyone as the gilded home of the mistress of Sherman McCoy, the book’s high-living investment banker protagonist.

Everyone, that is, except a woman lucky — or unlucky — enough to have just bought an apartment there.

“As a very private person who wishes to remain that way and who has no taste whatsoever for the kinds of flashy lifestyles which you describe,” the woman wrote in a letter to Mr. Wolfe, “I am embarrassed and ashamed when friends gleefully inform us that our new address is in your book and has become a rather notorious one.”

Next time around, she asked, couldn’t he take steps to avoid harming another “unsuspecting person”?

The letter — one of more than 10,000 in the Wolfe archive, which the New York Public Library agreed to acquire last November for $2.15 million — may be one of the odder complaints in the history of Manhattan real estate angst (and not just because the address technically no longer existed, having been rolled into that of the grand limestone pile at 960 Fifth).

But it’s just one striking artifact in a massive trove of material still being processed at the library’s services center in Queens, where a reporter recently got an early look at roughly 170 linear feet of manuscripts, reporter’s notebooks, newspaper clippings, sketches and other materials, much of it kept by Mr. Wolfe in elegant orange Queen Bee file boxes made in Richmond, Va., his birthplace.

“I guess I’m a pack rat,” Mr. Wolfe, 84, said in an interview. As for the library’s acquisition of the archive, he added, “I’m not sure if it makes me feel immortal or posthumous.”

It’s not just Mr. Wolfe’s vision that is preserved there. Running through his papers, the library’s archivists say, is an unusually rich vein of incoming correspondence showing just how editors, literary agents, research subjects and ordinary readers — to say nothing of his tailors, for whom he sometimes sketched out elaborate instructions — saw him.

“You have letters from nobodies filed next to letters from somebodies,” said William Stingone, the library’s assistant director for archives and manuscripts. “It gives a full sense of the work and the career evolving over time.”

On the somebody side, there are letters from writer friends like Gay Talese, William F. Buckley Jr. and Hunter S. Thompson. Thompson’s rambling missives — including a six-page letter insisting that he had not called “The Right Stuff,” Mr. Wolfe’s 1979 book about the early space program, a pile of dog excrement — sometimes suggest a bit of rivalry with Mr. Wolfe, his more button-down fellow pioneer of the New Journalism.

“Whoops. O.K., O.K. — I once called you ‘crusty,’ ” Mr. Thompson wrote. But “you’ve also been decent & honorable enough to resist the constant ‘Let’s You and Him fight’ kind of pressures that these swine are constantly putting on both of us.”

Crusty or not, Mr. Wolfe seemed to some readers of his early books like a countercultural Virgil — “one of the really free people, right there in the vortex of Wow-everythingness!,” as one correspondent put it. In 1970 a young man wrote seeking advice on which commune to join; a young woman sent a postcard reporting that she had read parts of “The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test,” Mr. Wolfe’s rollicking 1968 account of Ken Kesey’s Merry Pranksters, to a toddler she was babysitting for. (“She liked it,” the woman wrote.)

But then came “Radical Chic,” Mr. Wolfe’s scathing account of a fund-raiser for the Black Panthers held in Leonard Bernstein’s luxurious Park Avenue apartment. The article caused a firestorm when it first appeared in New York magazine in 1970. Suddenly, the author seemed to some less like a freewheeling guide to youth culture than a reactionary — “Wolfe in White Clothing,” as a tongue-in-cheek place card for another Park Avenue dinner party in the archive puts it.

The thick file of responses to the article and the subsequent book version include congratulatory notes from Mr. Talese (signed “Don Corleone”), Katharine Graham and Raymond Price, a special assistant to Richard M. Nixon. A writer from Marvel Comics wrote to ask whether Mr. Wolfe would be interested in collaborating on a comic book about “a fictitious bunch of ‘Radical Chic’ social leaders who align themselves with a militant (nonblack) group which turns out to be bent on world domination.” (The result, surely one of the strangest cameos in comics history, shows the impeccably white-suited author taking notes as the Incredible Hulk works an Upper East Side drawing room.)

Others were far less amused. A woman with the surname Ortiz forwarded a note canceling her subscription to New York magazine, saying, “We are not pet animals!”

And while Barbara Walters wrote to thank him for portraying her “with such accuracy,” other guests who attended the party were scathing. One, signing her name only as “Ash Blond” (a reference to Mr. Wolfe’s description of her), sent a three-page blast defending the party’s good intentions. “If we all do not work hard for constructive change,” she wrote, future events “will make the Panthers look like an old-ladies tea party.”

Mr. Bernstein’s sister, Shirley, accused him of writing “as if on order from Mssrs. Agnew and Hoover” and, perhaps worse, bringing an “uninvited tape recorder” into a private party.

“I took that as a compliment,” Mr. Wolfe said. “I took shorthand notes. But according to her, I got it all right.”

Sometimes he got things wrong. The archive contains a 1979 letter from John Glenn on Senate letterhead complimenting him on “The Right Stuff” but noting that the car he had driven in the early 1960s (in contrast to his Corvette-driving fellow pilots) was not a Peugeot, but a more fuel-efficient Prinz.

“With my kids being a little older than some of the others at that time, I was already concerned about their college $,” he wrote. (The error was corrected.)

“The Right Stuff,” which won the National Book Award, elevated Mr. Wolfe well out of the Prinz class. The archive contains invitations to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis’s Christmas party. Letters note his canonization in both the Norton Anthology of American Literature and Trivial Pursuit.

By the time of “Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast,” his much-debated 1989 essay in Harper’s Magazine faulting American novelists for abandoning the tradition of social realism he had aimed to revive with “The Bonfire of the Vanities,” some readers saw a self-promoting bully.

“After reading Tom Wolfe’s article,” a man from Woodstock, N.Y., wrote in an unpublished letter to the editor in the archive, “I pictured him looking out the window of his apartment at the ‘billion-footed beast,’ and thinking, ‘There must be an awful lot of those toes I can step on!”

“Bonfire” certainly stepped on many, and not just on Fifth Avenue. An owner of the British tailoring company John Blades expressed dismay that one character, the “execrable” British tabloid journalist Peter Fallow, was depicted as wearing one of its blazers. The president of City College wrote to correct the description of its supposedly lax admissions standards.

Mr. Wolfe’s wry valentine to 1980s excess also provoked more philosophical reactions.

“After reading ‘Bonfire of the Vanities,’ ” one admirer from Baltimore wrote, “I am compelled to ask the obvious question: Why bother living in New York?”

When a quiet and courteous DVD executive named Kevin Tsujihara ascended to the Warner Bros. throne last year, Hollywood did not know quite what to make of him.

Lacking the usual show-business personality traits — screaming, scheming, showboating — and entering from the musty world of home entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara seemed awfully corporate for a business built around creativity. He had almost no experience managing movie or television show production. And yet this low-profile son of egg distributors was given the job of steering the motion picture industry’s biggest and most storied studio.

“In the beginning,” said Robert A. Daly, a former Warner chairman, “there were a lot of people who asked themselves, ‘Kevin who?’ ”

Nobody is asking that now. Since last March, when he won a bitter succession battle to become C.E.O., Mr. Tsujihara, 49, has surprised Hollywood with bold moves that belie his nice-guy demeanor. He persuaded J.K. Rowling to expand the Harry Potter movie universe, something most people thought was a nonstarter. By hiring the flashy Fox executive responsible for “American Idol” and paying $273 million for part of Eyeworks, a Dutch entertainment company, Mr. Tsujihara moved to fix one of Warner’s most glaring weaknesses: overseas reality-TV production.

He parted ways with one film financier and instantly teamed with another, securing $450 million to make 75 movies. Earlier this month, he risked a fight with theater owners by experimenting with the simultaneous release of “Veronica Mars” in theaters and through on-demand services. And he has already duked it out — twice — with no less a force than Harvey Weinstein, who started a naming-rights battle with Warner over “The Butler” and is suing the studio over its “Hobbit” series.

The signals seem easy to read: Despite what many agents, producers and directors may have thought, Mr. Tsujihara’s reign will be anything but dull.

On one recent morning, just after breakfast with another new Hollywood kingpin, Jeff Shell, chairman of Universal Filmed Entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara sat in a stylish armchair inside his sparsely decorated executive suite in Burbank, Calif. “This was Jack Warner’s office,” he said with a grin, referring to the mogul who founded Warner in 1923. “I’m building a desk that is a replica of his desk. It’s really cool.”

During an hour-and-a-half interview, Mr. Tsujihara came across as a relaxed father (of two young children) with a passion for sports. He loves the San Francisco Giants, owns a racehorse and likes to play basketball during lunchtime at the Warner gym. He seemed to be enjoying his new rank — he recently attended a Los Angeles Lakers game with Will Ferrell — while also finding it a bit confining; he now reads so many scripts that he has less time for books. “That’s a bummer,” he said.

But mostly he wanted to talk about the future. “Warner Bros. should be setting the course, making the hard decisions,” Mr. Tsujihara said, speaking in a careful, measured cadence. “In a very difficult operating environment there are clearly opportunities.”

For instance, as film companies either sputter (DreamWorks Studios), cut back on production (Paramount Pictures) or lean harder on television departments (Sony Pictures), Mr. Tsujihara is betting big on cinema. There is, he said, “a real opportunity to lean into theatrical using our scale and using our distribution power.” Despite problems ranging from sky-high marketing costs to competition from video games and 50-inch flat-screen TVs, “we think theatrical can be a growth engine,” he said.

This summer, Warner will release eight movies, compared with five in the same period last year — the most of any studio. It’s an aggressive gamble that has some analysts worried; only one of the films, “Godzilla,” is a lower-risk remake or sequel. “If we were in charge of Warner’s studio, we would HIGHLY consider moving one or two of these films to later in the year or early 2015,” Doug Creutz, an analyst at Cowen & Company, wrote in a research note.

While acknowledging the risk, Mr. Tsujihara sees an opportunity to start new franchises and to send a message to Hollywood’s top writers and directors: Bring your projects to Warner, because we are not pulling back. A steadily pumping pipeline of movies also suggests an optimism about the future of home entertainment. He sees evidence that studios are starting to train consumers to buy movies digitally (big profit) rather than renting them (small profit) or watching pirated copies (no profit).

Warner also see movies as an international play — the Chinese box office grew 30 percent last year, to $3.6 billion.

Looking out a window toward Warner’s 35 sound stages, Mr. Tsujihara spoke solemnly about the pressure he feels to keep the studio’s engines firing. Home to enterprises as diverse as Batman, Bugs Bunny, “The Big Bang Theory” and TMZ.com, Warner had operating income of $1.33 billion last year, up 7.3 percent from a year earlier. Global box-office receipts for 2013 totaled $5.04 billion, the most of any studio. With 63 programs in production, Warner is the No. 1 supplier of television shows.

“This is not a turnaround,” he said. “But I do want to run the company differently as a way to improve and grow.”

Only 14 months ago, Mr. Tsujihara was still caught up in a two-year, three-way race to succeed Barry M. Meyer, who retired as Warner’s chief executive last March. Bruce Rosenblum, the studio’s highly polished television president, was seen as the likely winner. Mr. Meyer, who led the studio for 14 years, had himself risen through the television division. Warner’s movie chief, Jeff Robinov, was a dark-horse candidate.

Mr. Tsujihara was selected over his rivals (both of whom have since left the company) in part because he had experience with the disruptive technologies that are unraveling the entertainment industry’s traditional business models. As president of home entertainment, Mr. Tsujihara labored to prop up slumping DVD and Blu-ray sales while also prodding consumers to begin buying movies digitally. He also ran the studio’s video game division and led its antipiracy efforts.

But his diplomatic skills were also crucial. In 2010, it was Mr. Tsujihara who flew to New Zealand to lead a tense negotiation that allowed Warner, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and Peter Jackson to proceed with the “Hobbit” trilogy. Mr. Tsujihara and his team convinced New Zealand’s prime minister to agree to a deal where the government contributed financing and agreed to introduce new labor legislation to keep production going. (A suit brought by Mr. Weinstein seeking a greater share of the “Hobbit” profits, however, continues.)

Jeffrey L. Bewkes, the chief executive of Time Warner, which owns the studio, said he saw in Mr. Tsujihara a leader who could not only force Warner’s famously siloed divisions to work more cooperatively, but could also get along with newly installed chiefs at the conglomerate’s HBO and Turner Broadcasting units.

“I don’t want people sitting with their egos in their fiefdoms,” Mr. Bewkes said. “Collaboration will only make us stronger.” In a lengthy telephone interview, Mr. Bewkes went on and on about Mr. Tsujihara’s talents. “Kevin is exceeding my already very high expectations,” he said.

Mr. Tsujihara said his ambassadorial style — “behaving like a human being” is how he put it — reflected his unpretentious upbringing in Petaluma, Calif., north of San Francisco. His parents, second-generation Japanese immigrants who were forced into California internment camps during World War II, owned the modest Empire Egg Company there. The youngest of five children, Mr. Tsujihara grew up making egg deliveries. Summer jobs included sorting eggs on a conveyor belt and mucking chicken coops.

After earning an accounting degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Stanford, he founded a business called QuickTax that went belly-up. In 1994, through contacts at Ernst & Young, he got a job at Warner managing character licensing for Six Flags theme parks, among other duties. Soon, he was climbing the rungs.

Wherever he learned the skill, his deft touch became clear to Hollywood’s creative community last September. That is when Warner announced that Ms. Rowling had agreed to adapt for the big screen her “Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them,” a 2001 book billed as one of Harry Potter’s Hogwarts textbooks. Three megamovies are planned. The main character will be a “magizoologist” named Newt Scamander. The stories, neither prequels or sequels, will start in New York about seven decades before the arrival of Mr. Potter and his pals.

Convincing the famously independent Ms. Rowling to dive back into film was a coup. “When I say he made ‘Fantastic Beasts’ happen, it isn’t P.R.-speak but the literal truth,” Ms. Rowling said in response to emailed questions. “We had one dinner, a follow-up telephone call, and then I got out the rough draft that I’d thought was going to be an interesting bit of memorabilia for my kids and started rewriting!”

She added, “When Kevin got the top job, he brought a new energy, which rubbed off. He’s a very engaging person, thoughtful and funny.”

Not everyone is such a fan. A few Hollywood players have suggested, for instance, that Mr. Tsujihara has had a successful early run largely because Mr. Robinov left behind hit movies, including “Gravity,” which took in $715 million worldwide and won seven Academy Awards. Asked about the sniping “Gravity” chatter in particular, Mr. Tsujihara said: “I don’t think it’s catty. Quite frankly, Jeff deserves the praise.”

Mr. Tsujihara faces the same daunting challenges as any Hollywood studio chief: scraping for material to make into hit television shows and movies, pushing into restrictive but booming international markets and finding ways to meaningfully cut marketing expenses, something that he called “our next big opportunity.”

But Warner also has unique puzzles. Efforts to resuscitate its Looney Tunes animation franchise have repeatedly failed to gain traction. The studio has been painfully slow to establish a slate of films based on DC Comics characters like Wonder Woman and the Flash, watching as Disney’s Marvel Entertainment churns out one superhero hit after another.

Mr. Tsujihara noted recent progress on both of those fronts. Dan Lin, a Warner-based producer, is working on multiple sequels to “The Lego Movie,” which became a surprise blockbuster last month. (Mr. Tsujihara was directly responsible, having bought a company that makes Lego-themed video games in 2007. That led to the film, which has taken in more than $390 million worldwide.)

As for DC Entertainment, cross-studio collaboration to make better use of its comic book characters appears to have accelerated considerably since Mr. Tsujihara took over, in part because he eliminated some management layers. (He has not named a chief operating officer and did not replace Mr. Rosenblum and Mr. Robinov, choosing instead to divide up their duties and assume some himself.) Two new television shows are coming to the CW and Fox, including one based on the Flash and another on a young Batman, and a film series will be announced in the near future, Mr. Tsujihara said. It is expected to include a “Justice League” movie.

Underscoring his aggressive approach to the DC Comics universe, Mr. Tsujihara and Dan Fellman, Warner’s domestic film distribution chief, recently moved the studio’s untitled Batman-Superman movie — a hotly anticipated follow-up to last year’s “Man of Steel” — to a release date in May 2016 previously claimed by Marvel for one of its own films. It created an industry dust-up, and Marvel retaliated with a date change of its own. But the move sent a blunt message: Warner takes a back seat to no one.

Warner is equally determined to become more of a player in reality television, a potentially huge profit center, particularly overseas, that will require the studio to move out of its comfort zone. To lead this charge, Warner is relying on Mike Darnell, a former Fox executive who favors oddball Western wear and is known for boundary-pushing concepts like “Temptation Island.” Mr. Tsujihara said: “I want Mike to question everything and bring an entirely different sensibility.”

Mr. Tsujihara faces some succession issues of his own. Peter Roth, chief content officer for Warner Bros. Television, will turn 64 this year, according to public records. (The studio declined to provide his age.) Mr. Roth, who has deep relationships with TV producers like J.J. Abrams and stars like Ellen DeGeneres, is viewed by the industry as nearly irreplaceable. On the movie side, it is lost on no one that Sue Kroll, 52, president of worldwide marketing and international distribution, would like greater responsibilities.

“If the company is going to grow he’s eventually going to need a chief operating officer,” said Mr. Daly, the former chairman.

Mr. Tsujihara’s early track record suggests that he will figure these things out. So far, his decisiveness and evenhanded approach have earned him far more devotees than detractors.

“I don’t need to blow smoke,” said Chuck Lorre, the Warner-based creator of “Two and a Half Men” and “The Big Bang Theory.” “I trust Kevin not to make shortsighted decisions based on ego. He’s a very mature, sophisticated executive.”

The no-nonsense Mr. Lorre had one more compliment: “And he’s a nice fella.”

Summer Streets (Saturday and Aug. 16) Play continues to have the right of way on some Manhattan streets during this free festival, which began last week. For the next two Saturdays, from 7 a.m. to 1 p.m., Park Avenue will be vehicle-free, from the Brooklyn Bridge to 72nd Street, and parts of Lafayette Street and other streets will also be closed. In its seventh year, Summer Streets is part of the New York City Transportation Department’s Weekend Walks, an effort that encourages civic groups and businesses to sponsor free street events.

A rest stop at Spring and Lafayette Streets in SoHo will feature a climbing wall; other attractions include a zip line in Foley Square in Lower Manhattan and a tunnel art installation at Park Avenue and 32nd Street.

Not all the fun, however, is limited to Manhattan. For the next two Sundays, from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., a portion of the Grand Concourse, between 165th and 167th Streets, in the Morrisania section of the Bronx, will be filled with activities, courtesy of the Bronx Museum of the Arts, for Boogie on the Boulevard. (The museum, at 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, is also sponsoring a free walking tour on Saturday at 11 a.m., led by Sam Goodman, an urban planner. It will meet in the lobby of the north wing; no reservations are required. 718-681-6000, bronxmuseum.org.)

And in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, a Summer Stroll, sponsored by the Merchants of Third Avenue, will take place on Third Avenue, between 80th and 90th Streets, on the next two Fridays, from 6 to 10 p.m. Details: nyc.gov/weekendwalks and nyc.gov/html/dot/summerstreets. Don’t worry if you miss one day; there’s always another. (Anne Mancuso)

Museums and Sites

Alice Austen House: ‘Invisible Migrations’ (through Sept. 1) Visual tales of migration and immigration are featured in this exhibition, which includes photographs by Alice Austen as well as those by contemporary artists like Alejandro Cartagena, Seba Kurtis and Glenna Gordon. Tuesdays through Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., 2 Hylan Boulevard, at Edgewater Street, Staten Island, 718-816-4506, aliceausten.org; suggested donation, $3.

American Museum of Natural History: ‘The Power of Poison’ (through Sunday) The good and bad uses of poison are covered in this interactive exhibition, which closes this weekend. In his review for The New York Times, Edward Rothstein said that this is one of the museum’s “most theatrical exhibitions” and that the curating team has “combined elements with deft curatorial alchemy, touching on every taxonomical category.” Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org; $27, $22 for students and 60+, $16 for children 2 to 12.

American Museum of Natural History: ‘Pterosaurs: Flight in the Age of Dinosaurs’ (through Jan. 4) The earliest known vertebrates to fly, pterosaurs large and small roamed the skies more than 60 million years ago. This exhibition examines the lives of these creatures with fossils, casts and life-size models as well as videos and interactive simulations. Daily from 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, 212-769-5200, amnh.org; $27, $22 for students and 60+, $16 for children 2 to 12.

Bartow-Pell Mansion Museum: ‘Grandes Dames and Grand Plans: 100 Years of History at Bartow-Pell’ (through Nov. 16) The story of this historic site, which was restored in the early 1900s as the headquarters of the International Garden Club (now the Bartow-Pell Conservancy), is told through items like a photograph of Fiorello H. La Guardia, who was a guest in 1936, and a copy of the book “The Herbaceous Garden,” by Alice Martineau, an Englishwoman who, with Zelia Hoffman, a Manhattan socialite, inspired the founding of the garden club. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays from noon to 4 p.m., 895 Shore Road North, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx, 718-885-1461, bartowpellmansionmuseum.org; $5, $3 for students and 65+, free for under 6.

Brooklyn Historical Society: ‘Brooklyn Abolitionists/In Pursuit of Freedom’ This interactive exhibition of manuscripts, paintings and maps tells the story of Brooklynites who were instrumental in the abolition of slavery. Wednesdays through Sundays from noon to 5 p.m. 128 Pierrepont Street, near Clinton Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-222-4111, brooklynhistory.org; suggested admission: $10, $6 for students 12 and older and those 62+, free for children under 12.

Discovery Times Square: ‘The Art of the Brick’  (through Labor Day) Nathan Sawaya uses the tiny Lego block to create large and fanciful works of art. A 20-foot-long dinosaur skeleton is among the pieces on display here. Thursdays through Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m., Sundays through Wednesdays from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m. 226 West 44th Street, Manhattan, 866-987-9692, discoverytsx.com; $22.50, $19.50 for 65+; $17.50 for those 3 to 11.

The Fence (through October) This 1,000-foot photographic installation returns for a third year to showcase the work of 40 photographers from around the world, including the photographer Stephen Shames, who has been documenting youth in the Bronx. The artists were tasked with capturing what they feel to be the essence of the word “community,” and the resulting work is broken into categories like “home,” “streets” and “play.” Daily from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m., Brooklyn Bridge Park, Pier 5, with entrances at Joralemon Street and Main Street, Brooklyn, fence.photovillenyc.org.

‘Flow.14’  (through Nov. 15) The Randalls Island shoreline is the backdrop for this installation of site-specific works by four artists: Dean Monogenis (“City Pillars”), Robert Raphael (“Untitled Folly”), Jessica Sanders (“Ground”) and Kant Smith (“Ghost House”). The exhibition, open daily from 5 a.m. to midnight, is presented by the Randalls Island Park Alliance, the city’s Department of Parks and Recreation and the Bronx Museum of the Arts, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania, the Bronx. Next Friday at 6:30 p.m., the artists will talk about the installation at a free event at the museum. 718-681-6000; 212-830-7722, flowartnyc.org/about; free.

Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum: ‘Masters of Disguise: The World of Camouflage’  (through Feb. 24, 2015) The art of camouflage in nature and its appropriation by hunters and the armed forces are explored in this exhibition, which uses digital images, artifacts and interactive elements to showcase how color, shade and shapes can be used to deceive the eye. Weekdays from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, 877-957-7447, intrepidmuseum.org; $24; $20 for students and 62+; $19 for ages 7 to 17; $12 for ages 3 to 6; free for under 3, active or retired military members, and museum members.

Italian American Museum: Photographs of Naples (through Oct. 13) “Napoli,” a display of photographs of that Italian city by Janine Coyne, a Brooklyn-born photojournalist, is on view. Thursdays from 6 to 8 p.m., Fridays from 3 to 8 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays from noon to 6 p.m., 155 Mulberry Street, at Grand Street, 212-965-9000, italianamericanmuseum.org; suggested donation, $10.

Metropolitan Museum of Art: ‘Early American Guitars: The Instruments of C.F. Martin’ (through Dec. 7) More than 20 guitars made by the 19th-century German-born craftsman Christian Frederick Martin are included in this display of 35 vintage instruments drawn from the museum’s permanent collection (as well as the Martin Guitar Museum in Nazareth, Pa., and private collections). Among the items on view: a 1939 model made by the company he founded, C.F. Martin & Co., that was played by Eric Clapton. Fridays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m., Sundays through Thursdays from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., 212-535-7710, metmuseum.org; suggested admission: $25, $17 for 65+, $12 for student, free for members and children under 12.

Morbid Anatomy Museum: ‘The Art of Mourning’ (daily, except Tuesdays) On view through Dec. 4, this exhibition of items associated with mourning practices from the 18th to 20th centuries includes photographs, shadowboxes and memorial cards. There will be screenings of death-themed films on Monday, starting at 8 p.m. ($5), and lectures on anatomical dissection and grave-robbing on Tuesday at 8 p.m. and memorial tattoos on Wednesday at 8 p.m. ($8 each). From noon to 6 p.m., 424 Third Avenue, at Seventh Street, Brooklyn, 347-799-1017, morbidanatomymuseum.org; $10, free for children 12 and younger.

Morgan Library & Museum: ‘Gatsby to Garp: Modern Masterpieces From the Carter Burden Collection’ (through Sept. 7) This exhibition, culled from the collection of Carter Burden, who died in 1996 at 54 and served on the New York City Council for about a decade, comprises nearly 100 first editions, manuscripts and galleys of modern American literature by the likes of F. Scott Fitzgerald, Allen Ginsberg, John Steinbeck and Gertrude Stein. Fridays from 10:30 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays through Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 225 Madison Avenue at 36th Street, 212-685-0008, themorgan.org; $18; $12 for students, those 13 to 16 and 65+; free for children under 12 and members, and for all on Friday evenings.

Morris-Jumel Mansion: ‘Ladies of the House: History From a Feminine Perspective’ (through Aug. 25) This exhibition features contemporary photographs by Trish Mayo, as well as prints and images from the mansion’s archives. Museum hours: Tuesdays through Sundays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., 65 Jumel Terrace, Washington Heights, 212-923-8008, morrisjumel.org; $5, $4 for 65+ and students, free for children under 12 and members.

Mount Vernon Hotel Museum: ‘Rescuing the Past in New York City’  (through Sept. 7) This two-part exhibition of books, documents and photographs highlights the commitment of heritage societies (like the Colonial Dames of America, which purchased the museum building in 1924) to preservation. The first part focused on the founders of the Colonial Dames of America and the history of the museum building before its purchase. The second part continues with the story of the building. Tuesday through Sunday, from 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., 421 East 61st Street, at York Avenue, 212-838-6878, mvhm.org; $8, $7 for students and 62+, free for members and children under 12.

Museum of Sex: ‘Funland: Pleasures and Perils of the Erotic Fairground’ (through spring 2015) This exhibition, organized by the Conceptual artists Sam Bombas and Harry Parr, explores the eroticism of carnivals and fairs with films and interactive displays. In his review for The New York Times, Edward Rothstein wrote, “though it encloses just 2,000 square feet, with five ‘attractions,’ there is no body part commonly thought private that is not here publicly grasped, modeled or bounced against, with a mixture of vulgarity, playfulness, inventiveness, crudity, childishness and mischievous provocation.” That said, this show is for those 18 and older. From 10 a.m. to 8 p.m., until 9 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, 233 Fifth Avenue, at 27th Street, 212-689-6337, museumofsex.com; $17.50, $15.25 for students.

Museum of the Moving Image: ‘What’s Up, Doc? The Animation Art of Chuck Jones’ (through Jan. 19) The work of the artist and animation director Chuck Jones, who died in 2002 at 89, is on display, including over 20 of his animated films as well as sketches, drawings, storyboards, animation cels and photographs. A screening series of some of the cartoons he directed continues on Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m. Museum hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays from 10:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays from 10:30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays from 11:30 a.m. to 7 p.m.; 35th Avenue at 37th Street, Astoria, Queens, 718-777-6888, movingimage.us; $12, $9 for students and 65+, $6 for those 3-12.

New York Hall of Science: Rocket Park Mini Golf (through December) While circumventing NASA rockets (no longer in use, don’t worry), guests can tee off at this outdoor course, which imitates the path of a complete spaceflight. Players must be precise to avoid gravity wells, wormholes and asteroids, and will learn about spacecrafts and the laws of motion along the way. Daily, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, 718-699-0005, nysci.org; $17, $13 for 18 and under, students, and 62+, which includes museum admission.

New-York Historical Society: ‘Madeline in New York: The Art of Ludwig Bemelmans’ (through Oct. 19) This exhibition, celebrating the 75th anniversary of the appearance in print of the little French girl created by Ludwig Bemelmans, features original artwork and books, many of which are out of print. But, the brand still thrives under the pen of Bemelmans’s grandson, John Bemelmans Marciano. In his review for The New York Times, Edward Rothstein wrote, “Though you aren’t left deeply moved by the fascinations of this show, by the end of the show, you feel an urge to applaud.” Tuesdays through Thursdays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays from 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org; $19, $15 for 65+, $12 for students, $6 for those 5 to 13; free for those 4 and younger.

New York Society Library: ‘From the Western Front and Beyond: The Writings of World War I’ (through Nov. 15) Written accounts of the war, including letters from soldiers, are included in this display commemorating the centenary of World War I. Drawn from this library’s collection, the exhibition includes pieces by writers like Arthur Conan Doyle, George Bernard Shaw, Rudyard Kipling and H.G. Wells as well as writings by ambulance drivers and clergy members. There are also works by the Scottish etcher Muirhead Bone. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tuesdays and Thursdays from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m., 53 East 79th Street, Manhattan, 212-288-6900, nysoclib.org; free.

New York Transit Museum: ‘ElectriCity: Powering New York’s Rails’ Ever wonder how the third rail works? This exhibition displays items from the museum collection — including switches and circuit breakers — that illustrate how electricity powers the subway system. Tuesdays through Fridays from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Saturdays and Sundays from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., Boerum Place and Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn Heights, 718-694-1600, mta.info/mta/museum; $7, $5 for 2 to 17 and 62+, free for members and on Wednesdays for those 62+.

New York Transit Museum Gallery Annex and Store: ‘Traveling in the World of Tomorrow: The Future of Transportation at New York’s World’s Fairs’ (through Nov. 2) With postcards, photographs and other items, this exhibition illustrates how the future of transportation was imagined in displays at the World’s Fairs of 1939-34 and 1964-65. The images on view include those of the pavilions sponsored by General Motors, a popular attraction at both fairs. Weekdays from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., Grand Central Terminal, near the Station Master’s Office; web.mta.info/mta/museum; free.

Events

‘Seis del Sur: Sin Limites’: A Photography Show (through Sept. 20) Scenes of life in the Bronx figure prominently in this exhibition of about 40 works by six Nuyorican photographers who are part of the collective Seis del Sur. The artists include two staff members of The New York Times: Ángel Franco, a photographer, and David Gonzalez, co-editor of the Lens Blog and a writer of the “Side Street” photo-essay feature for the Metropolitan desk. Works by Joe Conzo Jr., Ricky Flores, Eddie Pagan and Francisco Molina Reyes are also featured in the show. Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays from noon to 5 p.m., Bronx Music Heritage Center, 1303 Louis Niñe Boulevard, near Freeman Street, the Bronx, 917-565-2727, bronxmusic.org; free.

AIDS Memorial Quilt Display (Monday and Tuesday) A portion of the quilt will be exhibited on Governors Island on Monday from 10 a.m. to 6:45 p.m. and on Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. A ceremony on Monday at 4:30 p.m. will include a reading of names and a panel dedication. (Ferry service from Manhattan begins at 10 a.m.; return ferry service will be expanded on Monday to accommodate those attending the ceremony. Round-trip ferry fare is $2, free for children 12 and younger; free ferry admission is available, first come first served, for the 4 p.m. ferry on Monday from Manhattan.) Sponsored by Kiehl’s, the display is part of the company’s efforts to raise money for H.I.V./AIDS research. tinyurl.com/otygqhp

Art Deco Scavenger Hunt (Saturday) The city’s architectural gems are the focus of this event, sponsored by the Art Deco Society of New York and Open House New York. Using a series of clues, scavenger hunters will seek out these buildings. Prizes, including a cruise around Manhattan and brunch in Midtown, will be given to the high scorers. The event ends with a reception at the Museum of the City of New York, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, East Harlem. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; check-in and registration is at Open House New York, 1133 Broadway, near 26th Street, Chelsea, ohny.org; $30.

B(rook)lyn Chess Festival (Saturday) Clinics and activities for beginners and intermediate players, as well as pickup games for all, can be found at this free event presented by the city’s Department of Parks and Recreation. The bold can sign up to challenge Giorgi (the Tiger) Kacheishvili — a grandmaster originally from the republic of Georgia, who is ranked 261st internationally by the World Chess Federation. From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m., Dr. Ronald McNair Park, reachable from Eastern Parkway and Classon Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn. Registration for workshops and matches can be made at eventbrite.com.

Broadway in Bryant Park (Thursday) This series of lunchtime performances concludes with musical numbers from “Matilda,” “On the Town,” “Mamma Mia!” and “Motown: The Musical.” At 12:30 p.m., Avenue of the Americas, at 40th Street, 212-768-4242, bryantpark.org; free.

‘Bronx Meets Vienna’ (through Aug. 16) This exhibition by the Austrian photographer Thomas Stubbings explores the similarities and differences of daily life in the Bronx and Vienna. Tuesdays through Saturdays from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Poe Park Visitor Center, 2640 Grand Concourse, near Kingsbridge Road, the Bronx, 718-365-5516, nycgovparks.org/parks/poepark; free.

Buñuel Retrospective (through Thursday) This series, devoted to the Spanish director who died in 1983, concludes next week at BAMcinématek. Highlights include three films from the 1970s, all in French: “That Obscure Object of Desire” (1977), his final film, about a man obsessed with a flamenco dancer, starring Fernando Rey, Carole Bouquet and Ángela Molina (on Friday); “The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie” (1972), in which Mr. Rey also appears, which won the Academy Award for best foreign language film in 1973 (on Saturday); and “The Phantom of Liberty” (1974), a surrealist fantasy (on Sunday). BAM Rose Cinemas, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 718-636-4100, bam.org; $14, $10 for students, $9 for Cinema Club members.

Burlesque Cruise (Thursday) A burlesque sail for those 21 and older aboard a tall ship is among the fare offered by Manhattan by Sail. It leaves at 9:45 p.m. from Slip 1 in Battery Park, 212-619-6900, manhattanbysail.com; $28.

Dominican Day Parade  (Sunday) The procession begins at 1 p.m. on Avenue of the Americas, at 37th Street, and heads north to 52nd Street.

Great Jazz on the Great Hill (Saturday) Presented by the Central Park Conservancy and Jazzmobile, this annual event features performances by the jazz musicians Wycliffe Gordon, T.S. Monk and Alyson Williams. In addition, there will be games and activities for families as well as refreshments for purchase. From 3 to 6 p.m., reachable from Central Park West and 106th Street, centralparknyc.org; free.

HBO Bryant Park Summer Film Festival (Mondays through Aug. 18) This series, which shows free films on the lawn at Bryant Park, continues with “Lover Come Back,” the second of three romantic comedies starring Doris Day, Rock Hudson and Tony Randall. The lawn opens at 5 p.m., and the movie begins at sunset. No chairs are allowed on the lawn. Avenue of the Americas, between 40th and 42nd Streets, 212-768-4242, bryantpark.org.

History Day at Coney Island (Saturday) From 1 to 6 p.m., some sights from the old days of the Brooklyn amusement park — including antique organ grinders and the Astroland Rocket that simulated space travel for parkgoers in the early 1960s — will be found at this free celebration, which is sponsored by the Coney Island History Project. Sealed for more than 40 years, the interior of the rocket will be open for inspection; Tang and moon pies will be given to the first 500 visitors. The Rockinghams will play music, and “The Rocket Has Landed,” a documentary about the ride, will be screened. (Rain date is Sunday.) Boardwalk and West 12th Street, coneyislandhistory.org.

Hong Kong Dragon Boat Festival  (Saturday and Sunday) The races of colorful boats are the main draw of this annual festival at the lake in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. But other activities abound: There will be music and dance performances, crafts workshops and international cuisine to sample. The races, which feature teams from around the world, commemorate the life and death of the ancient Chinese poet and reformer Qu Yuan, who according to legend died after throwing himself into the water to protest government policies. From 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. (rain or shine), www.hkdbf-ny.org; free.

Latino Punk Fest 2014 (Friday through Sunday) Bands from the area and from Mexico, South America and Europe will perform at several Manhattan and Brooklyn locations during this festival. Acheron, at 57 Waterbury Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is one of several clubs hosting shows, including one on Friday at 8 p.m. ($15 cover) and Sunday at 2 p.m. ($12 cover). More details: tinyurl.com/pgx95wj.

MoMA PS1 Warm Up 2014 (Saturdays through Sept. 6) This museum continues its annual outdoor music series with George FitzGerald, Martyn (D.J. set), Leon Vynehall and others. From 3 to 9 p.m., 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, 718-784-2084, ps1.org; $18 in advance, $20 on the day of the show.

‘90 and Going Strong’ (Monday) A trio consisting of the pianist and composer Irving Fields, 99, and two 91-year-olds — the clarinetist Sol Yaged and the comedian Fyvush Finkel — will perform with Mr. Yaged’s five-piece band at 7:30 p.m. The concert also commemorates Mr. Fields’s recent birthday. Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, 212-352-3102, baruch.cuny.edu/bpac; $35.

Seaport Film and Food Series (Thursday) International cuisine can be sampled before the screening of foreign films during this free series, running on Thursdays through Aug. 21 at the South Street Seaport, Fulton and Front Streets. Next week’s entry is “Au Revoir Taipei,” a romantic comedy by Arvin Chen that is in Mandarin with English subtitles. The event, which starts at 7 p.m., is part of the “See/Change” summer season at the South Street seaport; seechangeny.com.

Summer 2014 Street Festival (Saturday) Music, dancing, food and more will be featured at this annual free celebration sponsored by the Dance Theater of Harlem. Performers include students from the Dance Theater’s school and the Harlem School of the Arts. From noon to 7 p.m., West 152nd Street, between Amsterdam and St. Nicholas Avenues, 212-690-2800, dancetheatreofharlem.org.

Third Avenue Fair (Sunday) From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on Third Avenue between 23rd and 34th Streets.

Times Square Summer Fair (Saturday) From 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., on 45th Street between Fifth and Seventh Avenues.

Tribute to Mae West (Wednesday) The anniversary of West’s birthday, which is Aug. 17, 1893, will be celebrated at the Jefferson Market Library. In the 1920s the library as the site of a courthouse and jail, where she was imprisoned for 10 days for performing in the play “Sex,” which was deemed to be morally corrupting. The event features a talk by LindaAnn Loschiavo, a historian and dramatist who has written plays about West. At 6:30 p.m., 426 Avenue of the Americas, at 10th Street, Greenwich Village, tinyurl.com/mbnaklv; free.

Urban Farm Bicycle Tour (Sunday) An urban ecology bicycle and walking tour of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Center at BLDG 92 will visit a rooftop farm and an oyster restoration project. It starts at 11 a.m., and participants must provide their own bicycles, helmets and locks. More information about registration is at tinyurl.com/nnx8y5e; the cost is $29.

Spoken Word

Jeff Bridges and Lois Lowry (Friday) The film adaptation of Lois Lowry’s classic young-adult novel “The Giver” arrives in theaters next Friday. Ms. Lowry will be joined by Jeff Bridges, who plays the titular Giver, and they will discuss the book’s journey to the screen. Clips from the film will also be shown. At 7 p.m., 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue, 212-415-5500, 92y.org; $39, $15 for those 35 and under.

PechaKucha Night Brooklyn (Thursday) A magazine editor, a rug maker and an aquatic explorer will have just under seven minutes to talk about their work during this evening of presentations. These talks, for those 21 and older, were developed in Tokyo in 2003 as a way for designers to network and show their work. Fabien Cousteau, an oceanographic explorer, filmmaker and grandson of the underwater explorer Jacques Cousteau, will be among those appearing at this session. At 8 p.m., Galapagos Art Space, 16 Main Street, at Water Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, 718-222-8500, galapagosartspace.com, pechakucha.org/cities/brooklyn; $10.

‘Word for Word’: Literary Events at Bryant Park (Tuesday and Wednesday) The Bryant Park Reading Room continues its series of literary events at Avenue of the Americas and 40th Street. On Tuesday at 7 p.m., a reading will feature poets who have contributed to the literary magazine McSweeney’s, including Matthea Harvey, Carl Adamshick and Dan Chelotti. On Wednesday at 12:30 p.m., Scott Snyder, who has written numerous Marvel and DC Comics, including the series “Swamp Thing,” appears with John Cunningham of DC Entertainment. A schedule is at bryantpark.org; 212-768-4242; free.

Walking Tours

East Harlem Dance of the Giglio (Sunday) To attend a Noshwalk tour is to explore the city by taste. On this one, walkers will sample the cuisines of West Africa, the Caribbean, Mexico, Italy and France (for dessert). The tour coincides with the Dance of the Giglio, in which dozens of men hoist and transport a multi-ton platform, atop which stands a brass band and the giglio — a five-story tower erected in honor of St. Antonio. The tour leaves at 1 p.m. from in front of 62 West 116th Street, Harlem, 212-222-2243, noshwalks.com. Tickets, which should be purchased in advance, are $54; $20 for children.

Flatiron District Walking Tour (Sundays) This free tour meets at 11 a.m. on the southwest corner of Madison Square Park, at 23rd Street and Broadway, in front of the William Seward statue. Sponsored by the Flatiron/23rd Street Partnership; discoverflatiron.org.

NYC Discovery Walking Tours: From Warhol to Pollock (Saturday) This tour, which takes walkers through parts of Greenwich Village and the Union Square neighborhood, is just a mile in length, and features stops at Warhol’s Factory, the homes of Jackson Pollock and Diane Arbus and the studio of Edward Hopper. The departure point for the tour, which starts at noon and is $20, will be disclosed when reservations are made: 212-465-3331.

Riverside Drive: Dignity and Elegance of Yesteryear (Sunday) Bernie’s New York Walking Tours introduces walkers to the glamorous Riverside Drive of yesteryear. Stops include the homes of Fanny Brice, Babe Ruth, and George and Ira Gershwin. The tour departs at 1 p.m. from the northeast corner of West 72nd Street and Riverside Drive, 718-655-1883, bernesbx@yahoo.com; $15.

Union Square: Crossroads of New York (Saturday) Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership, this free year-round tour focuses on the area’s political and social histories. This walk, led by guides from Big Onion Walking Tours, meets at 2 p.m. by the statue of Lincoln in Union Square Park, near the 16th Street transverse. 212-517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org.

Wall Street Tour (daily) The history of the financial market is the focus of tours led daily by Wall Street Walks. Stops include the New York Stock Exchange, Trinity Church, the Wall Street Bull and the World Trade Center. Tours cost $27, last 90 minutes and begin at either 10 or 11 a.m., depending on the day. More details are at wallstreetwalks.com.

Recreation

Join the Voices! Against Brain Cancer (Sunday) The actor Tony Danza, who lost both of his parents to brain cancer, is the host of this annual run and walk in Central Park. Both the walk and the run will begin at Tavern on the Green, reachable from Central Park West and 67th Street. Runners will set off at 8:30 a.m. on a five-mile course around the park; walkers take off at 8:45 on a 1.7 mile stroll around the Sheep Meadow. All participants will eventually reconvene at the Naumburg Bandshell for a celebration with music, food, kids’ races and speeches. Registration is from 7 to 8:30 a.m. at the bandshell, reachable from 72nd Street; 646-278-6737; voicesinmotion.org; $15 to $37 in advance, $20 to $40 on Sunday.

Outdoor Pools (through Sept. 1) Pools in the five boroughs are open for free swimming, from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m., with an hour break for cleaning from 3 to 4 p.m. Swimming lessons are available, and some pools offer early-bird and night-owl lap swim hours. More information is at nyc.gov/parks/pools. At Brooklyn Bridge Park, a 3 1/2-foot-deep pop-up pool — with a sandy beach and lemonade stand — is open for 45-minute sessions daily, from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. More information is at brooklynbridgepark.org. ANNE MANCUSO and BRANDON K. THORP, JOUMANA KHATIB and ANDREW BORYGA

Maria Bamford has a mantra of sorts, and here it is: Do the work. Three words, three syllables. An easy, orderly thing. She tells it to herself when she wakes up in the morning, whether it’s at her bungalow in a middle-class neighborhood on the outskirts of Los Angeles or at a Holiday Inn in Boston or a Marriott in Bloomington, or any of the other highway-side hotels she hits for one night before moving on. Do the work. It’s a stay against paralysis, against the descent of dread. It’s less dramatic than “seize the day!” more affirming than “stop overthinking everything!” It is functional, and that’s what she’s trying to be. Do the work. She repeats it on airplanes, in taxis, on the long walks she takes to calm her nerves before a show. Sometimes she amends it to: Just do the work, the “just” a reminder that she’s not, after all, performing surgery on babies. There’s another, more refined version, too. Do your bits, she’ll tell herself, resigned to the idea that this may always be a struggle. Just do your bits.

It should be simple, even if it’s not. Because she’s a comedian, and comedians do bits.

The first time I met Bamford, one evening in May, she was at a theater in Boston, about to step in front of an audience of roughly 600 people. She had been rehearsing her bits all afternoon, silently delivering jokes as she speed-walked alone along the Charles River, internally running through the intricacies of her timing as she browsed a couple of bookstores in Cambridge, thinking up a few chummy Boston references she could throw in to her 60-minute monologue. Now, dressed in black pants and a quilted North Face pullover, Bamford paced a small room backstage, her layered blond hair mussed and a little spiky, her blue eyes downcast as she avoided chitchat. What she was feeling, she’d later tell me, was “terror.”

You would think that stage fright, at this point in her career, wouldn’t be an issue. Bamford is 43. She has been doing stand-up comedy since her early 20s, when she was living in Minneapolis, a two-hour drive from her childhood home in Duluth. She has put out three well-received albums, twice done sets on “The Tonight Show,” landed a guest role on the third season of “Louie” and has had two half-hour specials on Comedy Central. Judd Apatow has described her as “the most unique, bizarre, imaginative comedian out there right now.” Last year, she appeared in the Netflix revival of “Arrested Development,” stealing scenes as DeBrie Bardeaux, a freakish, endearing meth addict in recovery. Mitchell Hurwitz, the show’s creator, calls Bamford “a genius” and “a real artist.” He adds, “Real artists talk about things that nobody else talks about, and talk about them candidly.”

Things Bamford likes to talk about candidly include the fact that she has disabling bouts of anxiety and depression, that she has contended with a form of O.C.D. called “unwanted thoughts syndrome” and that during her childhood, those unwanted thoughts came in the form of constant worries she might kill her own family or sexually molest animals. And while her comedy routinely traverses more everyday subject matter — she mimics her stalwart Minnesotan parents with devastating precision; she deftly does bits about emojis, online dating and her deep lack of interest in cooking — all of it seems anchored, one way or another, in Bamford’s psychological fragility. When she does her stand-up, when she acts on television and most notably in several web series she has written and starred in, she plays an exaggerated version of herself — a tremolo-voiced woman with a stunned expression, trying to navigate a world of people whose confidence is appreciably higher than her own.

In her work, she describes having done stints at inpatient psychiatric units and also the diagnosis she received a few years ago of Type-II Bipolar, an increasingly recognized variant of bipolar disorder. (“It’s the new gladiator sandal!” she will declare onstage.) Narrating the particulars of her psychology, which also include a history of binge-eating and having suicidal thoughts, Bamford displays little in the way of anguish and nothing resembling self-pity. She appears before audiences simply as vulnerable, as someone whose ongoing presence in the world is not entirely assured. She likens herself in temperament to a daffodil or an orchid, capable of wilting if the conditions aren’t perfect.

In Boston that night, she stood in the shadows at the edge of the curtain, watching a local comic, a tall woman with a swaying Afro, perform a warm-up set for the waiting crowd. Every time the other comedian delivered a joke, Bamford guffawed loudly from the wings, an odd, overdone warble that split the darkness, offering encouragement to the lesser-known act. Comedy, like most businesses, is baldly hierarchical. Bamford herself is only midway up the ladder, a headliner but not a superstar. She wants more, but then again she doesn’t. Just do the work.

The audience was now applauding. It was her turn to go on. Her jitters revved, as they always do. Smiling almost sheepishly, she began the 15-foot walk across the empty stage, toward the puddle of light with a microphone at its center. She looked, in that moment, like a woman who would either crumble or roar.

The minute Bamford lifted the microphone, her nervousness morphed into something more potent and focused. She began with some lighter material about making a ceramic dog for her father and a Vine video she could play anytime someone complained she wasn’t good at expressing her emotions. (She acted it out onstage in jerky, six-second bursts: “I love you . . . O.K.? I love you . . . O.K.?”) From there, she ran through an exuberant and juvenile riff on farting, including a lot of vivid sound effects, and then eventually she rounded the corner, as she almost always does, to talking about suicide. (“Is anyone thinking of suicide?” she asked the crowd, sounding merry. “Well, don’t do it, it’s not the season for it.” She then crinkled her face into a childish pout. “And people will be so mad at you if you do that.”)

Much of Bamford’s work examines the relationship between “people” — generally well-intentioned friends and family — and those who grapple with depression or anxiety or any other challenge to the psyche. Her act is a series of monologues and mini-skits performed rapid fire and often without regard for transition. Deploying a range of deadpan voices, she mimics the faux-enlightened who hover around the afflicted, offering toothless platitudes (“You just need to get out in nature”), bootstrapping pep talks (“It’s all about attitude. You gotta want it!”) or concern warped by self-interest (“You’d think you’d just stop vomiting for me and the kids”). The humor of any given moment relies not so much on punch lines as it does on the impeccably timed swerves of her tone, the interplay between Bamford’s persona and those of all the people who don’t get her. Often, she is demonstrating helplessness on both sides. “We love you, Maria,” Bamford says, imitating her 69-year-old Midwestern mother, Marilyn, in one of her recorded performances, heaving a fed-up sigh. “We love you, we love you, but it’s hard to be around you.”

Bamford is a small person, narrow-shouldered and spindly legged. Her speaking voice is also small and a bit quavery, lending a charming uncertainty to anything she says. Wrapped inside the wobbliness, though, is an earned authority. Bamford talks about mental illness the same way Sarah Silverman talks about being Jewish or Louis C.K. talks about being divorced, with the flippant knowingness of an insider. Occasionally, the sharper pieces of her agenda poke through. One of her more jarring bits is about war veterans. She points out that more than 7,000 U.S. veterans die of suicide every year. “Which is funny,” she says, breaking into a giggle as a predictable hush falls over the room, “Because you’d think they’d die over there, but they come home. . . . " The audience quickly explodes into laughter — not because it’s funny, but because it’s funny coming from her.

After the show, a crowd lingered late in front of the theater, waiting to speak with Bamford. She is frequently approached by people who view themselves as part of her tribe, who want to talk about their own diagnoses and tell their own tales of being misunderstood. In making light of the hidden struggles and deep absurdity that accompany living with, or close to someone with, mental illness, she appears to have planted an appealingly honest flag. She gets mothers who say, “I have a daughter just like you,” and daughters who say, “I have a mother just like yours.” She gets people — a lot of people — who say that her frank talk about suicide has made a difference to them personally.

The next morning, Bamford climbed into my car, holding a takeout salad she’d brought from the hotel, an early lunch for the ride ahead. We were going to Albany, about 160 miles away, where that evening she was due to put on another show. Ticket sales, she’d heard, had been slow. As it is with many comics, the specter of bombing always loomed. “I don’t know,” she said as we pulled onto the Interstate. “You may see it tonight.”

I told her I thought the Boston performance was great, but she waved off the compliment.

“It was good,” she said. “I mean, yes . . . , but I was slightly disappointed with myself.”

When I asked why, she fumbled for words. “Just psychologically . . . ,” she began, and then trailed off.

Close up, Bamford is milder than she is onstage. She has a thoughtful and friendly demeanor, but it’s edged with a certain nervousness. The verbal acrobatics that pump energy into her monologues, you soon realize, are not flashes of spontaneous genius but rather the product of huge amounts of time spent in focused rehearsal. (When she’s developing new material, she will pay friends $75 an hour to listen to her practicing bits over the phone.) In casual conversation, words come less easily. Bamford often appears to rethink her sentences midway, leaving many of them unfinished. Some of this may be attributable to Depakote, the mood stabilizer she takes daily. It’s one of a number of concessions she has made in the name of stability. Thanks to the medicine, she also now needs at least 10 hours of sleep each night, she says, “and also another hour to nap.”

When it comes to stage fright, Bamford laments that there seems to be no remedy. She enjoys performing, but only after the fact. Even just thinking about doing stand-up that night made her panicky. “I think I’m going to start working with a coach,” she added. “Just to get some daily support.”

She is, if anything, a dutiful seeker of help. One night in 1990, when she was a sophomore at Bates College in Maine, experiencing a period of despair, she wolfed down a huge amount of food and then called a suicide help line. Ever since, she has maintained faith in support networks. She has participated in 12-step programs for eating disorders, money problems, sex and intimacy struggles and addiction, though substance abuse has not been an issue for her. She just appreciates the company, and also the honesty. “I think 12-step programs are genuinely cognitive behavioral programs,” she told me. “You are out of isolation, and that helps you think differently about things.” When traveling, Bamford looks for local support-group meetings to visit. Otherwise, she attends them by phone. She has found a sense of community in online chat rooms and is a vocal fan of Crazymeds.us, a website that gives advice about psychiatric medications. (In addition to the Depakote, she also takes Prozac for depression and occasionally beta blockers to calm a tremor in her hands.)

She sometimes talks about her brain as an entity not entirely in her command, as something unruly and perhaps best understood from a slight distance. “My brain wanted me to think,” she will say, describing unhealthy perceptions, or “My brain wasn’t doing so great,” recalling a darker time. Her brain, she has found, behaves best in controlled settings, thriving on rules and boundaries. Twelve-step programs are good this way. And so, too, curiously enough, is stand-up comedy, stage fright notwithstanding. When at one point I remarked that putting yourself alone onstage before a judgmental audience seemed like a punishing thing to do, Bamford said: “Yes, but for me it’s also a structured environment, and structured environments feel safe. I’m up there in the lights, saying what I want to say, and they’re sitting a safe distance away.”

Most everyone I spoke to about Bamford felt compelled to mention that she’s a deep thinker, an observant introvert who processes everything carefully. “She’s always churning the butter,” was how her older sister, Sarah Seidelmann, put it.

“You know what it’s like?” says Jackie Kashian, a comedian who has known Bamford for about 20 years and sometimes travels with her as an opening act. “It’s like being best friends with Hermione Granger. You spend a lot of time in the library.”

And it’s true. Bamford normally hauls a bag of books and magazines with her when she travels, never knowing where she might find a steadying revelation. She’s a lover of recovery memoirs, psychology tomes and bullet-pointed self-help manuals. She can quote liberally from “The Artist’s Way,” by Julia Cameron. She reads O.C.D. books with titles like “Tormenting Thoughts and Secret Rituals.” She also plows through People magazine as well as lots of highbrow literary writing and is, in particular, a fan of Dave Eggers. (“I sometimes put my name next to his,” she confides in a 2011 video she posted online about books she loves. “Like, what would it be like to be Mrs. Eggers?”)

She is bolstered, she says, by hard facts. A subscriber to AARP Magazine, she enjoys citing studies about health and longevity. A few years ago, after reading in a book that people who feel a strong sense of community have been proven to lead longer and happier lives, Bamford started working to overcome her natural shyness and fear of interaction by saying hello to her neighbors in Eagle Rock, a diverse and partly gentrified area on the northeastern edge of Los Angeles. She bought a park bench and had it installed on the median strip in front of her house. She then spray-stenciled the words “Have a Seat!” on the sidewalk in front of it. To her delight, the bench is often occupied. “It’s like a bird feeder for humans,” she says.

In the car that day, Bamford told me she was reading something called “The Procrastinator’s Handbook,” which was all about overcoming anxiety and just doing the work. She told a story about how a couple of years ago, when she was feeling leveled by depression and anxiety, a mutual friend connected her with the comedian Jonathan Winters, who was at that point well into his 80s. (He died last year.) Like Bamford, Winters was a gifted mimic, known for creating satirical characters. He also suffered breakdowns, spent time as a patient in psych hospitals and as early as the 1960s was hinting at his psychological struggles in his comedy routines. Eventually, too, he was given a diagnosis of bipolar disorder. Bamford recalls that when she spoke to Winters on the phone, she was just out of the hospital herself and deeply scared about continuing on with both comedy and life. Winters, she says, offered what turned out to be a useful bit of blunt-force wisdom. “He said: ‘You got a good shrink? Yes? Well then, you just keep going.’ ”

Bamford has a song that she sometimes performs onstage called “My Anxiety Song.” It has no melody. Instead, it sounds more like an incantation, a desperate verbal hum. “If I keep the ice-cube trays filled,” she chants, “no one will diiiiieeee.” She continues, in a monotone, “As long as I clench my fists at odd intervals, then the darkness within me won’t force me to do anything inappropriate or sexual” — here, she drops her voice a couple of notes — “at dinner partieeeees. . . . “

This, she is saying, is the agony of O.C.D., the skewed sense of cause and effect that first began to plague her when she was about 10. According to the National Institutes of Health, about 2.2 million adult Americans contend with some form of obsessive-compulsive disorder. It’s not uncommon for the symptoms to appear during childhood. Bamford is patient when explaining the particulars, aware that when she jokes about having wanted to chop up her family into bits or imagining what it would be like to lick a urinal, it can make her sound weird and also scary. But she makes a distinction: It’s the thoughts that are weird and scary, not the person. And while most of us are prone to having fleeting notions that would qualify as inappropriate, in the mind of someone with O.C.D., they are more likely to lodge themselves and repeat. The thoughts don’t tend to inspire action, only fear. It’s like having a homegrown terrorist in the brain.

During her childhood, the thoughts kept her from sleeping. As her anxieties combined with exhaustion, she began to isolate herself, contemplating suicide as early as middle school. At some point, she shared her fears with her mother. The whole family — Bamford, her parents and her sister — went to counseling for a while, with mixed results. “We weren’t in the golden age of psychotherapy in Duluth,” recalls Marilyn Bamford, who was then a stay-at-home-mother but later became a family therapist herself. Maria remembers going to the therapist and “mostly just taking naps on her couch, because I was so tired, and it felt like a safe place.”

Her compulsion for violent thoughts felt so shocking that she was afraid to share them, even in therapy. She finished two years of college in Maine and another year at the University of Edinburgh in Scotland — feeling “supercompulsive and superdepressed the whole time” — before transferring to the University of Minnesota, where she majored in creative writing. At 22, she was prescribed antidepressants, which helped only somewhat.

Throughout it all, she was drawn to performing. As a child, Bamford showed talent as a violinist. She acted and sang in school plays. In her early 20s, she shaved off all her hair and moved into a feminist housing collective in Minneapolis, holding down a job at a pizza place while doing what she calls “hippie performance art” in coffee shops and black-box theaters, mixing violin-playing into her act. To earn extra money, she busked on the street with the violin. “I was really just trying to express myself,” she says. Being a baldheaded woman, she sees now, was an unconscious ploy to ward off intimacy and keep her struggles hidden: “People are like, ‘Oh, you’re a weirdo, I’ll stay away.’ ”

During this period, Bamford met Jackie Kashian, who performed at open-mike shows in Minneapolis, where Bamford would sometimes surface, thin and hairless and carrying her violin. “Her material was always sideways,” Kashian remembers. “She wasn’t examining the same topics a lot of other people were examining. It wasn’t going to be: ‘Hey! Airline food!’ or, ‘How am I gonna date more?’ It was usually like, ‘There’s this weird thing happening in Sudan.’ ” Club owners often perceived Bamford as “too smart for the room,” she says, adding, “Sometimes that’s just a polite way of saying ‘I don’t get you.’ ”

It wasn’t until she was in her mid-30s, after moving to Los Angeles, that Bamford finally found an O.C.D. specialist who was able to treat her unwanted thoughts using a technique called “flooding.” She was instructed to write down her compulsive fears in exacting detail, then to record herself reading them out loud and, finally, to play them back for herself, again and again, until they stopped causing her anxiety. Most of her fears were about harming other people or forcing herself on someone sexually. She recalls the flooding exercise as “horrifying and painful,” but potent in what it accomplished. While she continues to contend with other psychological challenges, the unwanted thoughts, she says, still sounding amazed, “just went away.”

Over time, too, Bamford has managed to build a stronger bridge between herself and her audiences, largely through truthful self-disclosure. She talks about wanting to commit suicide, calling it a “[expletive] idea,” one of her many stupid thoughts, like buying day-old raisin bread in bulk and freezing it. “My experience is so embarrassing,” she says. “But I’ve learned that it’s O.K. to be yourself. . . . It’s better than pretending that it’s not there.”

Bamford understands that her condition is most likely steered by genetics, or as she sometimes phrases it onstage, “Mentals run in the family.” “My great-grandmother lived her whole life in an attic,” she told me. “Maybe there were other reasons, but my mom seems to think, from her letters and stuff, that she was massively depressed.” Her father, a retired dermatologist, has also cycled through periods of depression. And in 2010, Marilyn Bamford landed briefly in the psychiatric ward of a Duluth hospital, having gone off Depakote, which she’d taken for decades to combat seizures (it’s prescribed for epilepsy and bipolar conditions), and started showing signs of mania. “She was calling the pope and emailing my manager, telling him I was in danger,” Bamford says. “It’s really scary to see someone you know change so quickly like that.”

Her mother’s hospitalization seemed to confirm something Bamford had long suspected about herself, that despite the fact she was now a reasonably well functioning adult with what was starting to look like a sustainable show-business career, there remained a lingering capacity for meltdown. Any gathering clouds were not to be ignored. “I said to my friends, if I ever start talking too fast, please just take me to the hospital,” she said. She had even done a kind of comic rehearsal for it, filming a 2007 web series called “The Maria Bamford Show,” in which a depressed comedian named Maria Bamford — played by Bamford — has a nervous breakdown and moves home to Duluth, tended to by her parents (also played by Bamford), who come off as bumbling, endearingly idiosyncratic and unwittingly critical. The series is hilarious and unusual, and it boosted her cult following.

In 2011, things were going well professionally. Bamford was getting regular voice-over work on television. She had starred in a popular series of preholiday ads for Target, playing an overhyped shopper. She was booking stand-up gigs as far away as Australia and playing larger and larger venues in the U.S. But her mind, as she puts it, had become like “an untethered jackhammer.” Her energy soared and crashed. After one of her two dogs, a pug named Blossom, took a tumble off her back porch and died — something for which Bamford blames herself, having removed a ramp connecting the porch to the yard — her mood went permanently black. “I could not find any comfort at all — just nothing, and for months,” she says. “I felt terrible, and my brain felt terrible. In the past, I’d always been able to be like, ‘Oh, I’ll write in my journal or read my self-help book, or I’ll call people and get out of this mood,’ ” she says. “But it wasn’t a mood. It was like, ‘Yeah, I’m gone.’ ”

Over the course of about 18 months, she was hospitalized on three occasions, for periods ranging from three to seven days, each time checking herself into the psych ward of a different L.A.-area hospital. “I thought it was the responsible thing to do,” Bamford says now. The hospital stays were in part a way to switch her medications under supervision (she received a Bipolar II diagnosis during her first admission), and in part meant to keep her from committing suicide, which she says had gone from being a vague idea to something that felt like a foregone conclusion, a rational next step.

Bamford’s sister, Sarah Seidelmann, visited her at Glendale Adventist hospital and says she felt taken aback by the number of patients who seemed lost in schizophrenia or were practically catatonic with depression. “I remember thinking, Oh, my gosh, all these people look terribly dispirited,” Seidelmann says. “These aren’t the people who can help you get better!” Seidelmann, who lives in Minnesota with her husband and four children, is a certified life coach. Her website asks, “Are You Ready for an Absurdly Fantastic Life?” She is also a recurring character in her sister’s stand-up routine, depicted as a hyperalert, finger-chewing realist who sees every problem as innately solvable and who often aggressively tries to redirect her sister’s negative thoughts. (In one skit, when Bamford says, “I’m worried I’m too old to be in show business,” the stage version of Seidelmann spits out an instant dismissal: “Hmmm. Betty White, Dame Judi Dench, Joan Rivers. . . . You’re not old enough!”)

According to Seidelmann, Bamford’s imitations of the family and their various blunders are biting in ways that can be painful — “My father cried, the first time he saw her doing him onstage,” she says — but they can be illuminating, not just inside the family but also inside a world rife with struggling people. Bamford’s comedy swims with paradox. She skewers the culture of self-improvement but relies on it, too. She pokes fun at the people who blithely misunderstand her, but also credits them for giving her love and shelter. (“You’re horrible,” she thinks about a friend who visits her in the psych ward and says all the wrong things. “But can you come back tomorrow?”) She addresses the loneliest of gulfs, acknowledging the confounding intimacies of living with and in proximity to mental illness — the whipsawing, humbling forbearance required from everyone involved.

Seidelmann, when I talked to her on the phone, got choked up, recalling seeing her sister pale and quiet and surrounded by a lot of hard-luck cases in the linoleum-floored psych ward in 2011. “My first instinct was to say, ‘Dude let’s get you out of this place,’ ” she says. “But Maria was trying to tell me something different. She was saying, ‘I feel safer here than I do at home.’ ”

Last month, I went to a meeting with Bamford in Los Angeles. It wasn’t a support-group meeting, but rather a business meeting, at a sprawling Beverly Hills office complex that’s rapidly being taken over by Netflix. As the company grows, there could be opportunity for someone like Maria Bamford, whose sensibilities don’t readily bend to those of network television but whose appeal with certain, quirk-loving audiences is well established. For the last few months, Bamford had been talking with Mitchell Hurwitz, the “Arrested Development” creator — a comic maverick in his own right — who had recently signed a development deal with Netflix, which came with an office and a mandate to launch new series.

“We’ve been drinking bottled water and eating salads and thinking out loud,” Bamford told me. “It’s how things get done in L.A.” She was dressed that day in jeans and a blue-green blouse, and when we met, in the sunshine outside the Netflix headquarters, she also wore an enormous wide-brimmed black hat. Something about it, the big, drooping hat sitting atop her thin-stemmed body, reminded me of how she likened herself sometimes to a flower, how vulnerability and resilience can coexist.

These days, Bamford credits the Depakote with keeping her stable. She sees a therapist weekly and a psychiatrist every three months. She no longer feels suicidal and remarks on that often — “It’s incredible!” she says — as if she has finally, after 33 years, shaken a persistent head cold. Following the hospitalizations, she says, it took almost eight months before she felt well enough to work at anything resembling a regular pace.

There’s a sweetness attached to her newfound balance: Bamford is in her first sustained romantic relationship, with an artist named Scott Marvel Cassidy, whom she met in early 2013 on OkCupid.com, advertising herself under the user name Hogbook. (“I used to have a profile that suggested I was fun-loving and happy,” she says. “But Hogbook felt more honest.”)

When Bamford and I walked into Hurwitz’s office that day, he embraced her warmly. Hurwitz is effusive and has a quick-moving wit. The show they were discussing would be based roughly on Bamford’s life experiences, including, possibly, her stays in the psych ward. “I guess what I want to do is make mental illness feel more normal, more like a regular thing,” Bamford said. The question was how to develop the central character and give her a compelling narrative arc. Hurwitz mentioned that a few nights earlier he sent an email to Bamford, wondering what the Maria character’s trajectory should be. “What’s she aiming at?” he wanted to know. To which Bamford replied, only partly joking, “Maria don’t do trajectories.”

Conversations about ambition, especially since her hospitalizations, cause her to blanch. She has cut back on her travel, doing only a couple of shows on the road per month. She continues to do voice-over work and has had some small television parts, but she no longer goes to auditions, understanding that her oddball style is unlikely to land her any conventional roles. When she does things now, they are very much on her own terms. Her latest special — called “The Special Special Special!” which she made available for download late in 2012 — was released in May on Netflix. Rather than filming a live theater performance, as most comics do, she chose to stage her act in the comfort of her own living room in Eagle Rock. Lit by amateurish spotlights and with a keyboardist playing music during transitions, Bamford delivers a rollicking 45-minute set to an audience of two — her parents — who sit on her sofa, trying to look appreciative, clapping and laughing even as she mimics them. It makes for a weirder and funnier show and also, as her comedy often does, makes a subtler point about the burden families bear.

Critics have called Bamford’s special “hilarious,” “fearless” and “brilliant.” Riding alongside the compliments is a perceptible whiff of anticipation, a sense that she’s sitting on the edge of bigger things. The question of how hard to push herself, however, openly perplexes her. In our conversations, she fretted over whether it was O.K. to be a marginally productive comic, wondering if, in dialing back her time on the road, for example, she was being self-protective or just lazy. “I look at people who are hustling,” she said on the day we drove to Albany. “They’re working their butts off and doing a great job, and I don’t know if I’m ever going to be that person. I mean, I think there’s a reason I’m not famous.”

Bamford even has a bit about her productivity in her routine: “People want to know: ‘So what are you working on? What’s going on with you? What’s the next page? What’s coming up for you? What’s on the horizon?’ ” she says, adopting the fatuous voice of someone making small talk. “And I say: ‘Oh. I’m done. . . . Yeah, I finished early. I’m actually living in a gravy boat filled with delicious gravy.’ ”

I got to see her do that bit in May after we finally reached Albany that night. Bamford had worried about ticket sales, but the house was full. She’d worried that the comic opening for her, an energetic young New Yorker named Joyelle Nicole Johnson, wouldn’t make it to the theater on time, but she did. Twenty minutes before the show, Bamford sat on a worn couch in the greenroom with her legs crossed, anxiously reading her copy of “The Procrastinator’s Handbook,” which was filled with sentences she’d underlined in ballpoint and drawn big stars next to in the margins. Soon, the stage manager would come to get her and the house lights would dim. Soon, she’d be out there, making her case for the mentals and hearing people laugh in recognition. They always did. Earlier, in describing the stage fright, she told me that she knew that performing wasn’t exactly a life-or-death thing. But somehow, it still felt like an exercise in overcoming.

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.

Previews and Openings

‘Atomic’  (in previews; opens on July 13) Is the making of the bomb something to sing about? The book writers Danny Ginges and Gregory Bonsignore and the composer Philip Foxman apparently think so. Their new musical, which had its debut in Sydney, Australia, concerns the Hungarian physicist Leo Szilard and his role in the Manhattan Project. Acorn Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, theatrerow.org. (Alexis Soloski)

‘The Gyre’ (in previews; opens on July 14) The theater company the Amoralists, known for its brash and brazen plays, brings its volatile irreligion to Walkerspace with two dramas running in repertory, each “exploring man’s vicious cycles.” Derek Ahonen’s “The Qualification of Douglas Evans” concerns addiction; Mark Roberts’s “Enter at Forest Lawn” centers on network television. 46 Walker Street, TriBeCa, theamoralists.com. (Soloski)

‘Pageant: The Musical’  (previews start on Sunday; opens on July 14) The contestants vying for Miss Glamouresse have high heels, sashes, swimsuits and talent. The actors playing them have something extra — Y chromosomes. In this interactive musical, with book and lyrics by Bill Russell and Frank Kelly, a corps of men will play the would-be beauty queens. Each night, the audience will decide who wins the bouquet and tiara. Davenport Theater, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Soloski)

‘Piece of My Heart’  (in previews; opens on July 21) The songwriter Bert Berns racked up piles of hit records before dying at the age of 38. This new jukebox musical, directed and choreographed by Denis Jones, features several of his most famous songs — “Hang on Sloopy,” “Twist and Shout,” “I Want Candy” — while a character based on his daughter recounts his life. Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, pieceofmyheartmusical.com. (Soloski)

‘Play/Date’  (in previews; opens on July 16) Michael Counts, creative director of 3-Legged Dog, invites you on a blind date with 17 playwrights. They have taken over the Lower East Side club Fat Baby for this immersive, omnibus evening, which features an array of one-acts describing contemporary courtship. The playwrights include Greg Kotis, Clay Mcleod Chapman and Blake McCarty, who conceived the piece. Fat Baby, 112 Rivington Street, at Essex Street, Lower East Side, playdateshow.com. (Soloski)

‘Randy Newman’s Faust: The Concert’  (Tuesday) In the mid-1990s, Randy Newman’s song cycle about a contemporary deal with the Devil was staged in Los Angeles and Chicago, but never made it to Broadway. Now Mr. Newman, abetted by Encore’s Off-Center series, will bring this musical based on Goethe’s epic to a New York stage for a one-night concert performance. He will star as Mephistopheles, with Michael Cerveris as an angel, Laura Osnes as Margaret and Tony Vincent as Faust. Thomas Kail directs. At 7:30 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Soloski)

Broadway

‘Aladdin’  Casey Nicholaw (“The Book of Mormon”) directs and choreographs (and choreographs, and choreographs) the latest Disney musical, adapted from the 1992 animated movie. While the familiar formulas are not entirely abandoned, Mr. Nicholaw and the book writer, Chad Beguelin, stuff so much splashy, shticky business into this show that the more syrupy bits hardly register. James Monroe Iglehart stands out as the showboating, scene-stealing genie (2:20). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, 866-870-2717, aladdinthemusical.com. (Charles Isherwood)

‘Beautiful: The Carole King Musical’  This friendly, formulaic jukebox show about the New York-born singer-songwriter might as well be called “Brooklyn Girl,” so closely does it adhere to the template of the megahit “Jersey Boys” (about the Four Seasons). Jessie Mueller, though, is extraordinary as Ms. King, making us feel the connection between a singer and her songs (2:25). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Ben Brantley)

‘Bullets Over Broadway: The Musical’  This occasionally funny but mostly just loud adaptation of Woody Allen’s 1994 film, directed by Susan Stroman, features a score of 1920s standards and esoterica. If watching the movie was like being gently tickled into a state of hysteria, this musical version feels more like being head-butted by linebackers. Make that linebackers in blinding sequins (2:30). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

‘Cabaret’  Only a decade after it closed, Sam Mendes and Rob Marshall’s popular, audience-teasing reincarnation of this classic musical feels as if it never left us. Alan Cumming seems to be having the time of his life reprising the creepy, tragic M.C., a role he redefined for the ages. Michelle Williams appears somewhat less comfortable as the madcap Sally Bowles (2:30). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Brantley)

★ ‘The Cripple of Inishmaan’  Michael Grandage’s splendid production of Martin McDonagh’s dark comedy from 1996 is a ringing testament to the talents of everyone involved. That includes its star, Daniel Radcliffe, who plays a misshapen boy from rural Ireland with Hollywood dreams; an unimpeachable ensemble; and, most important, Mr. McDonagh, whose spellbinding narrative powers have seldom been so alluringly displayed (2:20). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, 212-239-6200, crippleofinishmaan.com. (Brantley)

★ ‘A Gentleman’s Guide to Love & Murder’  Playing eight different victims of a sweet-faced killer (Bryce Pinkham) in Edwardian England, Jefferson Mays sings, dances, prances and generally makes infectious merriment in this daffy, ingenious new show, winner of the Tony Award for best musical. Written with real wit by Robert L. Freedman and Steven Lutvak, the show has been stylishly directed by Darko Tresnjak (2:20). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

★ ‘Hedwig and the Angry Inch’  Though he plays an “internationally ignored song stylist” of undefinable gender in John Cameron Mitchell and Stephen Trask’s 1998 rock musical, Neil Patrick Harris is in full command of what he becomes here. That’s a bona fide Broadway star, who can rule an audience with the blink of a sequined eyelid. Michael Mayer directed this mightily entertaining, Tony Award-winning exercise in crowd control (1:30). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, hedwigbroadway.com. (Brantley)

‘Holler If Ya Hear Me’  The songs of Tupac Shakur are the inspiration for this ambitious but message-laden musical about the ills of the urban ghetto. Directed by Kenny Leon and written by Todd Kreidler, the show features a solid cast (Saul Williams is a standout as an ex-con trying to go straight) but the high-energy musical numbers (staged ’90s-style by Wayne Cilento) cannot disguise the hackneyed plot (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, 877-250-2929, hollerifyahearme.com. (Isherwood)

‘If/Then’  This new musical from Tom Kitt and Brian Yorkey (“Next to Normal”) is a gleaming drawing board of a show, full of polished surfaces and clearly drawn lines. The shiny-voiced Idina Menzel portrays a conflicted urban planner pondering two different roads her life might have taken. The show feels less like a variation on a theme than a dogged reiteration of it (2:35). Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ifthenthemusical.com. (Brantley)

★ ‘Lady Day at Emerson’s Bar and Grill’  Audra McDonald scales her lustrous soprano down to jazz-soloist size to portray the great Billie Holiday in this concert-cum-solo-play by Lanie Robertson. Ms. McDonald’s terrific performance moves beyond mimicry to become a haunting portrait of a troubled artist who could only find equilibrium in her life when she lost herself in her music (1:30). Circle in the Square, 235 West 50th Street, 212-239-620, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

‘Les Misérables’ It’s back — again. Capitalizing on the popular movie, Claude-Michel Schönberg and Alain Boublil’s musical about the French fellow who steals a loaf of bread and lives to regret it storms Broadway in a new production. Ramin Karimloo, as the long-suffering bread-stealer, and Will Swenson, as his relentless foe, Javert, give sterling performances (2:50). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

‘Of Mice and Men’ In Anna D. Shapiro’s respectable, respectful and generally inert revival of John Steinbeck’s classic portrait of a friendship, James Franco and Chris O’Dowd are the immortal itinerant farmhands George and Lenny. These two undeniably talented screen stars here wear their archetypes like armor. The competent cast includes Leighton Meester as the woman who destroys their lives (2:20). Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

★ ‘The Realistic Joneses’ Plays as moving and funny, as wonderful and weird as Will Eno’s meditation on the confounding business of being alive (and contemplating mortality) do not come along often on Broadway. Or ever. Sam Gold directs a flawless cast: Toni Collette, Michael C. Hall, Tracy Letts and Marisa Tomei (1:30). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, therealisticjoneses.com. (Isherwood)

‘Rocky’ The final 16 minutes of this adaptation of the 1976 movie — about a schlemiel who coulda been a contender — are terrific. That’s when the climactic boxing match occurs, and it’s a hell of a fight. Otherwise, this sluggish show’s sensibility isn’t just underdog; it’s hangdog. Alex Timbers directs a cast that includes the valiant and appealing Andy Karl (2:20). Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, 212-239-6200, rockybroadway.com. (Brantley)

★ ‘Violet’  A terrific, heart-stirring revival of Jeanine Tesori and Brian Crawley’s musical about a young woman from the South who hopes a faith healer can cure the facial scar that has blighted her adolescence. Sutton Foster gives a moving, career-redefining performance in the title role, with nary a tap shoe in sight (1:45). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)

Off Broadway

‘The Anthem’ It’s complete folly to adapt Ayn Rand’s wooden novella “Anthem,” a belabored paean to individualism, as a straight stage drama. Far better to give it a goofy, spoofy spin, as this exuberant musical does, pouring on dazzling trimmings, including aerial acrobatics, wonderful “Jetsons”-like costumes and a critical element absent in Rand’s didactic prose: humor (2:20). Lynn Redgrave Theater at Culture Project, 45 Bleecker Street, near Lafayette Street, East Village, 866-811-4111, cultureproject.org. (Andy Webster)

★ ‘Bayside! The Musical’ Attending this bawdy, ridiculous, unauthorized parody of the harebrained sitcom “Saved by the Bell” is a bit like going to a midnight screening of “The Rocky Horror Picture Show,” given the many inside jokes and synchronized audience responses. Audience members know the material so well because half the humor comes from merely reproducing every ludicrous plot twist and trope from the TV show (including Zack’s giant cellphone, Becky the Duck and other allusions that will be familiar to longtime fans). The other half of the humor is just good-old fashioned raunch, usually playing up the horrifying ways to reinterpret a squeaky-clean children’s show (2:00). Theater 80, 80 St. Marks Place, East Village, 212-388-0388, baysidethemusical.com. (Catherine Rampell)

★ ‘Buyer & Cellar’  Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises — an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand’s basement — allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. Stephen Brackett directs this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, 212-868-4444, smarttix.com. (David Rooney)

★ ‘The City of Conversation’ Jan Maxwell gives a captivating, multifaceted performance as a well-connected Washington dinner hostess in Anthony Giardina’s lively drama, which charts the rise of our polarized politics through the microcosm of a single family. Smoothly directed by Doug Hughes (2:00). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 212-239-6200, lct.org. (Isherwood)

‘Cougar the Musical’ Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of “Menopause: The Musical” and its ilk (1:30). Saturdays only. St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)

‘Donogoo’  In Jules Romains’s 1930 farce, revived by the Mint Theater Company, a Frenchman attracts backers to finance the exploitation of fictional South American gold fields. Though the director Gus Kaikkonen moves his actors on and off the stage deftly, the script doesn’t pay sufficient comic dividends. And yet, the play’s echoes of recent financial crises are resonant and chilling (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 866-811-4111, minttheater.org. (Soloski)

‘Ethel Sings: The Unsung Song of Ethel Rosenberg’ The playwright Joan Beber issues a posthumous pardon to Ethel Rosenberg (Tracy Michailidis), executed for conspiring to commit espionage in 1953. Like a morbid episode of “This Is Your Life,” this overwrought and simplistic drama runs from Ethel’s days as a high school thespian right up to the electric chair. With Adrienne C. Moore of “Orange Is the New Black” as Ethel’s imaginary cellie (2:00). Beckett Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, ethelsings.com. (Soloski)

★ ‘50 Shades! The Musical’  When it comes to potential for satire, E. L. James’s she-porn best seller “50 Shades of Grey” seems as easy a target as you could shake a sex toy at. That said, this exuberant takeoff handily delivers the goods, barreling along with a score steeped in show tunes, R&B, gospel, Gilbert and Sullivan, and lyrics packed with references to various practices and orifices. “This is real life; this isn’t a book,” says Ana, the show’s heroine, to her tycoon suitor. “If it was, it would be terrible.” It certainly would. But “50 Shades!” is a musical parody, and a very entertaining one (1:30). Elektra Theater, 300 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 212-352-3101, 50shadesthemusical.com. (Webster)

‘Forbidden Broadway Comes Out Swinging!’  This latest version of Gerard Alessandrini’s long-lived revue exudes an oxymoronic air of spirited ennui, an awareness that there ain’t much in the way of inspiring creative targets these days. With an industrious four-member cast, the show is dirge-like fun, rather in the spirit of a New Orleans jazz funeral (1:45). Davenport Theater, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

‘Heathers: The Musical’ Kevin Murphy and Laurence O’Keefe’s rowdy guilty-pleasure musical isn’t as mordant as the 1988 cult movie that inspired it. But in scaling up the grotesqueness, this sardonically grisly high-school revenge comedy puts a genial, guilt-quelling distance between its onstage mayhem and its audience. The excellent Barrett Wilbert Weed plays the ambivalent heroine (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, heathersthemusical.com. (Brantley)

★ ‘Here Lies Love’ This invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world’s a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, 212-967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)

‘iLuminate’ More spectacle than story, “iLuminate” offers technology as its most dazzling star. Conceived, produced and directed by Miral Kotb, a former software engineer, the show employs about a dozen talented, indefatigable young actor-dancers, encased in black suits wired with digitally controlled lights. Performing in total darkness to a score combining hip-hop, jazz and classical influences, they portray the tale of an artist whose magic paintbrush is stolen for evil ends. Much of the action is like a neon comic book, but it does have its magic moments (:55). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, iluminate.com. (Laurel Graeber)

★ ‘Just Jim Dale’ The title doesn’t quite tell it all here. This one-man show from the British actor who starred on Broadway in “Barnum” and “Me and My Girl” seems to contain multitudes (music hall joker, serious actor, songwriter and singer), and they dazzle us by turns in this lovable tour of his career in show business on both sides of the Atlantic. Richard Maltby Jr. directs (1:40). Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan, 212-719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)

★ ‘Much Ado About Nothing’ Jack O’Brien’s pleasure-filled interpretation of Shakespeare’s thorny comedy reminds us that fair weather never lasts forever, not even in the Eden-like patch of Sicily now installed in Central Park. Hamish Linklater and the wondrous Lily Rabe lead a cast that includes John Glover and Brian Stokes Mitchell in a music-steeped production that finds the shadows in summer sunlight (2:50). Delacorte Theater, Central Park, enter the park at 81st Street and Central Park West, 212-539-8750, publictheater.org. (Brantley)

‘Sea Marks’  Gardner McKay’s script, which concerns the unlikely romance between a fisherman and a publishing house underling, manages the nifty trick of being both utterly formulaic and highly implausible. You can see the plot twists from miles away, though you don’t believe them when they arrive. Yet the play has its charms, which derive mostly from the obvious enjoyment of the actors (1:45). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, 212-727-2737, irishrep.org. (Soloski)

‘Sex Tips for Straight Women From a Gay Man’ Matt Murphy’s one-act is a blend of a bachelorette party at Chippendales and the embarrassing midnight show at some tourist trap in Pigalle. It has a talented cast, but it is no “Queer Eye” (1:20). 777 Theater, 777 Eighth Avenue, at 47th Street, 888-841-4111, sextipsplay.com. (Gates)

★ ‘The Village Bike’  Portraying an erotically overcharged pregnant woman, the appealing Greta Gerwig takes you right over a cliff and down into the depths in her New York stage debut. Sam Gold’s seductive production of Penelope Skinner’s truly daring play considers the idea of sex as a raw biological urge that’s been given new outlets in the Internet age (2:15). Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, 866-811-4111, mcctheater.org. (Brantley)

‘When We Were Young and Unafraid’ The formidable Cherry Jones stars as a woman who runs a shelter for abused wives in Sarah Treem’s debate-driven play about nascent feminism in the early 1970s. Directed by Pam MacKinnon, and featuring a compelling Zoe Kazan, this earnest, thoughtful and overly articulate drama subverts its narrative power with thematic road signs (2:15). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, 212-581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Brantley)

★ ‘The Who & the What’ This new play from Ayad Akhtar (whose Pulitzer Prize-winning “Disgraced” comes to Broadway this fall), tautly directed by Kimberly Senior, depicts a Pakistani-American family thrown into turbulence when a clash of faith erupts between the father (the terrific Bernard White) and his daughter over her novel about Islam and women (2:00). Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, 212-239-6200, lct.org. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

★ ‘Clown Bar’ This goofy but very funny homage to noir films and pulp novels finds a cop up against a crew of demented clowns (1:10). Saturdays only at the Box, 189 Chrystie Street, near Stanton Street, Lower East Side, www.pipelinetheatre.org. (Ken Jaworowski)

★ ‘The Mysteries’  Ed Sylvanus Iskandar, a savvy and ambitious young director, has commissioned more than 40 playwrights to condense the Old and New Testaments into a five-and-a-half hour event, both gratifying and grueling. An enthusiastic 53-member cast works from the first light to the Last Judgment, with a vegan meal served in between (5:30). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, 866-811-4100, theflea.org. (Soloski)

Extravaganzas

‘Queen of the Night’  The latest and most lavish of this city’s immersive theater experiments includes cocktails, a meal and a circus-style floor show, in addition to any number of possible intimate, eroticism-tinged (but PG-13) encounters with the comely young cast members. The show is not for the social anxiety-prone, but full of gaudy spectacle, with a fin-de-Bloomberg-era vibe (2:45). Diamond Horseshoe at the Paramount Hotel, 235 West 46th Street, Manhattan, 866-811-4111, queenofthenightnyc.com. (Isherwood)

Long-Running Shows

‘Avenue Q’ R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical’ This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain’s children’s books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturdays and Sundays (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, 866-811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.

‘Black Angels Over Tuskegee’ The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). (Saturdays only.) Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, 800-258-3626, ticketmaster.com.

‘The Book of Mormon’ Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O’Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, 800-432-7250, telecharge.com.

‘Chicago’ Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘The Fantasticks’ Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

‘Jersey Boys’ The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Kinky Boots’ These boots are made for dancin’ (and stompin’ out bigotry) (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘The Lion King’ Disney’s call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, 800-870-2717, ticketmaster.com.

‘Mamma Mia!’ The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, 800-432-7259, telecharge.com.

‘Matilda the Musical’  The children’s revolution, per Roald Dahl (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Motown: The Musical’ A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, 877-250-2929, ticketmaster.com.

‘Newsies’  Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, 866-870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.

‘Once’  Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Perfect Crime’ The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

‘The Phantom of the Opera’ Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Pippin’ Making love and war, with music, under the big top (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Rock of Ages’ Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Rodgers & Hammerstein’s Cinderella’  The ultimate makeover story, restyled for a red-carpet age (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Sistas: The Musical’ Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). (Saturdays and Sundays.) St. Luke’s Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com.

‘Sleep No More’ A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.

‘Stomp’ And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, 800-982-2787, ticketmaster.com.

‘Then She Fell’ Go ask Alice (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John’s, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-374-5196, thenshefell.com.

‘Wicked’ Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, 800-745-3000, ticketmaster.com.

Last Chance

★ ‘After Midnight’ (closes on Sunday) The stars of this tribute to the Harlem jazz clubs of the 1920s and ’30s are the 16 virtuosic musicians who perform — with verve, style and a good splash of sheer joy — about 25 songs from the period, with a special emphasis on Duke Ellington both as composer and arranger. The dancers and singers (now including Patti LaBelle) are terrific, and Adriane Lenox all but steals the show with her two lowdown numbers. But it’s really the Jazz at Lincoln Center All Stars on the bandstand at the back of the stage who shine brightest (1:30). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, 212-745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)

‘All the Way’  (closes on Sunday) Bryan Cranston makes a commanding Broadway debut as Lyndon B. Johnson in Robert Schenkkan’s mostly absorbing drama about the tumultuous first year of the Johnson presidency. This Tony-winning play, directed by Bill Rauch, sorely needs streamlining, but Mr. Cranston’s dynamic performance gives it a compelling center (2:50). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, 800-745-3000, allthewaybroadway.com. (Isherwood)

★ ‘Ayckbourn Ensemble’ (closes on Sunday) Three captivating New York premieres, written and directed by the enduringly fruitful British playwright Alan Ayckbourn, are in repertory at 59E59 Theaters: “Arrivals and Departures,” “Farcicals” and “Time of My Life.” These brightly acted works, which consider dashed expectations in different keys, offer an ideal primer on the tragicomic sensibility of one of the funniest writers on the planet. “Arrivals & Departures” (2:30); “Time of My Life” (2:35); “Farcicals” (1:45). 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Brantley)

★ ‘Blink’ (closes on Sunday) This lovely relationship play by Phil Porter, part of the Brits Off Broadway festival, is all the more impressive because the two characters, Sophie (Lizzy Watts) and Jonah (Thomas Pickles), rarely address each other directly. He’s a social misfit from the country who rents an apartment in London that she owns. She’s a bit of a misfit too; she anonymously sends him a video monitor that lets him watch her at home. Then things get weird (1:15). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Neil Genzlinger)

★ ‘Carnival Kids’  (closes on Saturday) A faded former rock star, unable to navigate a world ruled by technology, crashes at his son’s apartment in Lucas Kavner’s very funny new play, directed by Stephen Brackett for Lesser America. Part father-son reckoning, it becomes a sort of odd-couple romance as friendship blossoms between the musician (Randall Newsome) and his son’s roommate (Max Jenkins), a man-child whose isolation is directly connected to his digital life (1:35). TBG Theater, 312 West 36th Street, Manhattan, 212-868-4444, lesseramerica.com. (Laura Collins-Hughes)

‘Casa Valentina’  (closes on Sunday) A gentle magic whispers amid the speechifying of Harvey Fierstein’s prolix play about cross-dressing in the Catskills in the early 1960s. Directed with ripples of beauty by Joe Mantello, and featuring a first-rate cast, this production has the heaviness of an old-fashioned message drama. But it captures the blessed consummation that occurs for ordinary men transformed into women (2:15). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)

‘A Fable’  (closes on Saturday) This saggy, perplexing parable by David Van Asselt concerns an angel and a devil fighting for the soul of a laggard soldier. All the characters, earthly and unearthly, remain one-dimensional, which is appropriate to an allegory, though it’s never really clear just what Mr. Van Asselt wants to symbolize. The moral of the story: No one wins (2:30). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, 866-811-4111, rattlestick.org. (Soloski)

‘Fly by Night: A New Musical’ (closes on Sunday) Will Connolly, Michael Mitnick and Kim Rosenstock’s extended musical riff about time, loss and love in mid-1960s New York is rather like its fumbling, guitar-strumming hero (Adam Chanler-Berat), who has a dopey appeal that’s irresistible in small doses and an unfortunate way of getting stuck in a repetitive groove. With Patti Murin and Allison Case, directed by Carolyn Cantor (2:20). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, playwrightshorizons.org. (Brantley)

★ ‘Gertrude Stein Saints!’ (closes on Saturday) Thirteen exuberant singers and composers, current and former students at Carnegie Mellon University, have set Stein’s libretto for “Four Saints in Three Acts” and selections from other works to original songs. They write in a dizzying array of style and genre — gospel, hip-hop, girl group, boy band, calypso, yodeling. Few of the melodies are distinguished, but all are agreeable (1:15). Abrons Arts Center, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side, 866-811-4111, abronsartscenter.org. (Soloski)

‘The Killer’  (closes on Sunday) Contrary to what might be expected, Michael Shannon does not portray the title role in Eugene Ionesco’s baggy, shaggy play about a serial killer at loose in a utopian enclave. He’s game, but miscast as Berenger, the innocent trying to stop the killer in Darko Tresnjak’s murky production of a murky play (3:00). Polonsky Shakespeare Center, 262 Ashland Place, between Lafayette Avenue and Fulton Street, Fort Greene, Brooklyn, 866-811-4111, tfana.org. (Isherwood)

★ ‘King Kirby’ (closes on Sunday) Crystal Skillman and Fred Van Lente, the husband-and-wife playwrights behind this production about the towering comic book artist Jack Kirby, deftly compress much information in outlining the tragic arc of his career. Draconian work-for-hire practices at Marvel Comics kept Kirby from ever seeing a royalty or right to any of the characters he visualized for the company, which comic fans have called the House That Jack Built. As Kirby, Steven Rattazzi conveys a sympathetic blend of boyish creativity and a hard-working, over-trusting nature (1:30). Brick Theater, 575 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, 718-907-6189, bricktheater.com. (Webster)

★ ‘Murder for Two’  (closes on Sunday) In this nifty mystery musical comedy by Joe Kinosian and Kellen Blair, a virtuosic Jeff Blumenkrantz plays all the suspects, and Brett Ryback the investigating officer. The actors also provide the music, taking turns at the piano, under Scott Schwartz’s fleet direction (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)

‘The Old Woman’ (closes on Sunday) In this vaudeville-style riff on an existentially anguished fable by the Soviet writer Daniil Kharms, the improbable teaming of Mikhail Baryshnikov and Willem Dafoe makes for the summer’s wackiest comedy bromance. Created by that smiling surrealist Robert Wilson, this extravaganza is a gorgeous slice of sensible nonsense, which suggests that we laugh hardest at what scares us the most (1:40). Howard Gilman Opera House, Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, at Ashland Place, Fort Greene, 718-636-4100, bam.org. (Brantley)

‘Our New Girl’  (closes on Sunday) In Nancy Harris’s drama-cum-psycho-thriller, Mary McCann plays a harried wife and mother whose relationships with her troubled, slightly spooky 8-year-old son (Henry Kelemen), her plastic surgeon husband (CJ Wilson) and the new nanny (Lisa Joyce) become more fraught by the minute (2:20). Atlantic Stage 2, 330 West 16th Street, Chelsea, 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)

‘Our Town’  (closes on Saturday) As far as site-specificity goes, there is no beating Green-Wood Cemetery. But this “Our Town” doesn’t bring much to the table beyond its setting (2:10). Green-Wood Cemetery, Fifth Avenue and 25th Street, Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn, 718-210-3080, green-wood.com/toursevents. (Claudia La Rocco)

★ ‘Pat Kirkwood Is Angry’ (closes on Sunday) The wonderful singer Jessica Walker wrote and stars in this spellbinding tribute to a British actress mostly unknown to Americans. An autobiography in song and anecdote, the show charts Kirkwood’s up-and-down career, which was shadowed by scandal after a notorious (if ultimately innocuous) evening in the company of Prince Philip, then wed to Princess Elizabeth (1:20). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, 212-279-4200, 59e59.org. (Isherwood)

‘Power Plays’  (closes on Sunday) Theater Breaking Through Barriers is dedicated to “changing the image of people with disabilities from dependence to independence.” They could use a better showcase than the fourth edition of this annual short-play festival. The group has attracted some first-class writers — including John Guare and David Henry Hwang — most of whom have contributed second-rate material. Still, the actors approach the plays with devotion and pluck (1:15). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton, 212-279-4200, theatrerow.org. (Soloski)

★ ‘Satchmo at the Waldorf’  (closes on Sunday) John Douglas Thompson does a remarkable job impersonating the aging Louis Armstrong in this one-man show, written by The Wall Street Journal’s drama critic, Terry Teachout. While Armstrong’s reminiscences cover the bases of his life, the show is most interesting in its examination of the racial and generational divides this jazz giant straddled. Two other portraits, ably conveyed by Mr. Thompson, also loom large: Armstrong’s longtime manager, Joe Glaser, and the towering trumpeter Miles Davis (1:30). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, 212-239-6200, telecharge.com. (Webster)

★ ‘The Sonic Life of a Giant Tortoise’  (closes on Thursday) “I want to live more fully than I do now.” That’s the quiet wish of the restless 30-somethings in this reverie of a play by Japanese dramatist Toshiki Okada, receiving its English-language premiere in Dan Rothenberg’s splendidly cast, leisurely paced Play Company production (1:05). Jack, 505 1/2 Waverly Avenue, near Fulton Street, Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, jackny.org. (Collins-Hughes)

‘Within the Law’ (closes on Sunday) Jailed for stealing from the store where she worked, the honest shop clerk Mary Turner (Elisabeth Preston) takes vengeance against her employer by marrying his son. This Metropolitan Playhouse revival of Bayard Veiller’s 1912 play reminds us that income inequality, living wages and an arbitrary criminal justice system have long been fodder for popular entertainment. But as intriguing as some elements are, the play is less a revenge thriller than a creaking melodrama (2:30). 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, 800-838-3006, metropolitanplayhouse.org. (Daniel M. Gold)