“I’m so tired of this politically correct crap,” Donald Trump told a cheering audience of South Carolina business leaders in September. “That’s called politicians’ speak.”

Opposition to political correctness has always been a weapon brandished by the right against what it sees as “multicultural” liberalism, but Trump has taken this to new extremes.

Trump’s assault on political correctness has even attracted the attention of Kenny Rogers, the country-and-western singer, who appeared slightly embarrassed to admit how drawn he was to Trump:

Trump’s resounding success with the reckless abandonment of the norms of political discourse suggests that he has tapped into a deep reservoir of antipathy to the culture of polite restraint.

Polls show that hostility to political correctness is widespread among voters.

On Oct. 30, Fairleigh Dickinson University released the results of a survey that asked 1,026 adults “Please tell me if you agree or disagree with the following statement: A big problem this country has is being politically correct.”

Over all, 68 percent agreed that political correctness was a big problem, including 62 percent of self-identified Democrats, 68 percent of independents and 81 percent of Republicans. These views cut across racial lines. Seventy-two percent of whites and 61 percent of nonwhites (mostly African-American and Hispanic) describe political correctness as a big problem. A Rasmussen poll in August found that 71 percent of 1,000 adults surveyed agreed with the statement that political correctness was “a problem in America today.”

This poll data indicates that even members of racial and ethnic minorities who are protected by speech codes as well as by the suppression of offensive language are hostile to political correctness.

This does not mean that majorities of all political persuasions agree with Trump’s allegation that Mexican immigrants are “criminals, drug dealers, rapists, etc.” — or that voters are comfortable with women being referred to as “fat pigs, dogs, slobs and disgusting animals,” as Trump put it.

President Obama has been prescient in his critiques of political correctness, but his remarks have been empathetic rather than hostile and have done little to defuse the issue.

In a March 2008 campaign speech at the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia, Barack Obama, then a candidate, said:

Obama then noted the consequences:

Obama also made a point about the political importance of what is said behind closed doors:

Just this past September, Obama was more explicit in his criticism of political correctness on the nation’s campuses in a speech at the North High School in Des Moines:

Obama’s remarks and Trump’s comments after supporters beat up a Black Lives Matter protester at a rally in Birmingham in November — “Maybe he should have been roughed up” – reflect the gulf between the two men.

The Fairleigh-Dickenson poll suggests that liberals who seek to defend speech codes and trigger warnings, especially in schools and colleges, have ventured onto politically hazardous terrain.

Anecdotal evidence of this tension abounds.

On Jan. 27, Joan Walsh, editor at large of Salon, the liberal web publication, wrote “When ‘political correctness’ hurts.” In it, she attacked Jonathan Chait, who had published a critique of political correctness in New York magazine.

Chait, himself a liberal, wrote:

Walsh’s counterattack:

His “tone,” Walsh wrote,

Salon published 312 comments on Walsh’s critique of Chait. Almost all of them were written by men and women on the left side of the political spectrum

Despite Salon’s progressive credentials, critics of political correctness substantially outnumbered defenders. Here’s a sampling of the majority view:

“AtheistLiberal” wrote: “P.C. culture deserves to be mocked because it is so pathetic. How pointing this out makes Chait look weak is beyond me.” Another asked: “How can we be equal if I’m constantly being told that my white male privilege blinds me and poisons my every thought?”

“GWnNWJ” joined the fray:

The Chait vs. Walsh dispute crystallizes the conflict between those who feel that politically correct norms defy common sense and those who feel that such norms are essential to the empowerment of individuals and groups previously barred from full participation in society.

Regardless of the outcome next November, Trump’s success in raising the issue of political correctness creates uncertainty in the 2016 election.

How many Democratic and independent voters share Trump’s implicit racial antipathy to the Black Lives Matter movement? How many worry that the police have backed off law enforcement in response to the so-called Ferguson effect, with a resulting increase in crime? And how many are offended by the concessions of university administrators to demands for speech codes, trigger warnings, “safe spaces” and even resignations?

Is the number of Democrats and independents who feel strongly about such issues large enough to alter the course of the election?

 The odds still favor a Hillary Clinton victory, but the issue of political correctness is particularly treacherous for the Democratic Party and liberalism.

Since 1964, the Democratic Party has served as the political home of the major rights revolutions — civil and voting rights for racial and ethnic minorities, criminal defendants’ rights, women’s rights, reproductive rights, gay rights, rights to sexual privacy. Each of these revolutions has changed the moral order and norms of permissible language — including, for example, the substitution of humankind for mankind and the now common usage of Ms.

At the same time, for a longer period, liberal ideology has  been the mainstay of support for First Amendment rights and opposition to censorship.

Trump’s chances of winning the nomination remain slim. Even as he has stirred powerful undercurrents in American politics, he has done so in ways that make him unacceptable to the majority of the electorate.

He has highlighted — and profited from — irreconcilable ideological contradictions within both the left and the right. If the American political system were more receptive to such a development, his campaign could have laid the groundwork for the creation of a third party.

Trump has reframed core questions in ways that make them dangerous, both for the candidates and for the country as a whole. He has fractured the Republican coalition and exacerbated fissures in the Democratic Party.

Chances are that the severity of Republican divisions will ease pressure on the Democrats to remedy intraparty conflicts, at least for now. While Trump may push his luck too far and go down in flames, the consequences of his bid — and the incendiary anger he has released — have proved unpredictable throughout this campaign and will remain so until Nov. 8th and probably beyond. In that sense, it doesn’t matter whether he ends up as a winner or his least favorite thing, a loser.

WASHINGTON —  President Obama is seriously considering an executive order that would require companies doing business with the federal government to disclose their political contributions, White House officials said on Tuesday, a step long awaited by activists to reduce the influence of secretive corporate donations in elections.

The directive, known as the “dark money” executive order, would mandate that government contractors publicly report their contributions to groups that spend money to influence campaigns. Advocates inside and outside the White House believe the executive order would prompt some companies to spend less, by exposing their donations to public scrutiny.

Mr. Obama has been considering the action for more than a year, but discussions have intensified in recent weeks, according to activists and administration officials, as the president moves to deliver on unfulfilled promises in his final year in office.

Brandi Hoffine, a White House spokeswoman, declined to comment on internal deliberations, and officials said no final decisions had been made.

“While we will continue to examine additional steps we can take to reduce the corrosive influence of money in politics, only Congress can put an end to it,” Ms. Hoffine said. She noted that legislation to require companies to reveal their campaign giving, known as the Disclose Act, died in 2012 amid Republican opposition.

The idea behind the order is to expose the political activity of many of the country’s largest companies, an attempt to narrow the floodgates of corporate contributions that opened with the Supreme Court’s Citizens United ruling in 2010, which allowed companies and labor unions to give unlimited sums.

In a report last spring, Public Citizen Congress Watch estimated that the proposed directive would apply to 70 percent of Fortune 100 companies, noting that large ones including Exxon Mobil, Apple, General Motors and General Electric had federal contracts worth more than $100,000 over the previous year.

Business groups that have fiercely opposed campaign finance restrictions argue that the executive order would encroach on free speech rights. And some advocates have privately questioned whether the directive would be enforceable.

“The real goal of the disclosure proponents is to harass, intimidate and silence those with whom they disagree,” said Blair Latoff Holmes, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “We continue to believe that one’s political activities should play no role in whether or not you get or keep a federal contract, and we encourage the administration to leave this bad idea right where it is.”

But outside groups that have long pressed for Mr. Obama to act on his own believe the moment is close at hand. In his State of the Union address last week, the president made a lengthy plea to “fix our politics,” specifically calling for reducing the role of money in campaigns and denying “hidden interests” the ability to bankroll elections.

The discussions are intensifying at a time when Mr. Obama has made it clear that he is looking for expansive ways to use his executive power before leaving office.

“We’ll do audacious executive action throughout the course of the year — I’m confident about that,” Denis R. McDonough, his chief of staff, told reporters the morning after Mr. Obama’s speech. He added that the president had informed his staff that the central question he would be asking himself about potential actions was, “Why not?”

“We’re going to lean pretty hard into it,” Mr. McDonough said.

Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been among the advocates for the move, officials and advocates said. Administration aides said that top White House officials, including David Simas, who leads Mr. Obama’s political team, and W. Neil Eggleston, the White House counsel, were weighing the move but had not yet reached a decision.

Still, proponents heard last week’s speech as a signal that a president who came to office promising to transform politics and has often called for campaign reforms — but has never used his authority to force them — was ready to act more aggressively.

“This issue of dealing with the systemic problem of money in politics is outrageously popular, and there’s no rational reason for the administration to be presiding over an approach of do-nothingness — it has been a huge disappointment,” said Lisa Gilbert, the director of Public Citizen. “We took this loud call to action in the State of the Union as a signal that they are changing course.”

Mr. Obama has “not yet done the simple thing that he can do,” Ms. Gilbert said, referring to the executive order, adding that last week’s speech was “finally an acknowledgment that this is not the legacy that he wants on this issue.”

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, spoke to Mr. Obama in person about the executive order in November and handed him a letter from 155 Democrats urging him to issue it.

“Requiring corporations to disclose their unlimited spending in our elections was the only path the misguided Citizens United Supreme Court decision left us to protect the sanctity of our democracy,” she said through a spokesman.

Around the time she met with the president, a coalition of 19 outside interest groups led by Rootstrikers, a grass-roots activist organization, launched a petition on the White House website calling on Mr. Obama to “take action to fight secret money immediately — and redeem your failed money-in-politics legacy.” It specifically called for the executive order.

“You must act now or be remembered as the president whose inaction aided the rise of secret money politics,” said the petition, which gathered more than 100,000 signatures within 30 days — the threshold for getting a White House response.

Lawmakers who have long pushed for stricter campaign finance rules said the order would build momentum for broader changes.

“It’s the easy thing that he can do,” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said. “It gets at a little bit of the problem, but more to the point, it buoys everybody who’s looking at this disgraceful political mess that we have out there that is infuriating Democrats and Republicans alike with the sense that they don’t control politics anymore, and it’s all being left to the special interests.”

Representative John Sarbanes, Democrat of Maryland, who has introduced legislation to finance congressional campaigns with public money, said the order would be part of a “package of solutions” he has discussed with Mr. Obama to contain the influence of corporations in politics and empower ordinary citizens.

“It’s about having a referee there to police the conduct of the big-money players, but also bringing everyday Americans out of the bleachers and out onto the field themselves,” Mr. Sarbanes said.