WASHINGTON — President Trump once said “I alone can fix it.” Looks like he may have to. No one else seems to be sticking around.

The record-high turnover at the White House has now reached 43 percent with the pending departure of Gary D. Cohn, the national economic adviser, as the team that arrived with Mr. Trump 13 months ago heads for the doors in increasing numbers and the president increasingly relies on his own judgment for key decisions.

The head-spinning pace of departures has contributed to the sense of disarray in the West Wing, but it reflects the way Mr. Trump has operated since he announced that he was running for president. He constantly searches for new voices, but burns through staff as he quickly loses faith in the people around him, leaving him with a dearth of advisers on whom he genuinely depends. In effect, it can feel like a presidency of one.

Mr. Trump said this week that this did not lead to chaos but to a healthy refreshing of his team, adding that a reasonable amount of conflict helped him make better decisions. But Washington veterans see a dysfunctional operation in which a president becomes trapped in an insular bubble and too dependent on his own instincts and assessments, however informed they may or may not be.

“The truth is that no one has a good gut,” said James K. Glassman, who served as a senior State Department official under President George W. Bush and then founded Mr. Bush’s public policy institute after leaving office. “Everyone needs a foundation of values and beliefs and then good advice to test them against.”

Mr. Glassman said Mr. Trump seemed to have concluded that his predecessors made mistakes by listening to bad advice. “Trump looks at Bush and Obama and thinks, ‘Those guys made some lousy decisions — Iraq, Iran, health care — so why should I do it their way? I was right during the election campaign by relying on my instinct. I’ll do the same in office.’”

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic minority leader, said that Mr. Cohn’s decision to resign demonstrated that Mr. Trump’s White House could not assemble a coherent team that could navigate the political and policy challenges that face a president.

“One of the problems here is the White House is getting hollowed out and the number of people capable of doing things, of doing real things whether you agree or disagree ideologically, is getting smaller and smaller,” Mr. Schumer told reporters. “So the mess-ups we’ve seen this past week,” he added, “I think we’re going to see over and over and over again.”

The White House pointed the finger the other direction later in the day, accusing Mr. Schumer of blocking the confirmation of many officials nominated by Mr. Trump for no other reason than partisan politics.

“Senator Schumer is blocking nominees indiscriminately,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “He forces time-wasting procedural votes on nominees and then eventually votes in support of them.” She added, “It’s a disgrace, it’s dangerous and it must come to an end.”

Many of the recent departures, however, have come from the White House staff, which does not require Senate confirmation. Mr. Cohn announced this week that he would step down after losing a fractious internal battle over imposing tariffs. Many White House officials anticipate that some of his top aides will end up leaving as well.

His resignation came soon after Hope Hicks, the president’s communications director and confidante, said she would leave in the next few weeks and Rob Porter, the White House staff secretary who was part of the inner circle, resigned under pressure amid allegations of spousal abuse by two former wives.

The 43 percent turnover rate calculated by Kathryn Dunn Tenpas, a scholar at the Brookings Institution, far outpaces that of any first-year presidency in the last four decades. And many assume that it will rise even higher soon amid talk that John F. Kelly, the chief of staff; Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the national security adviser; or even Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, might leave.

Even if they do not step down, the constant speculation makes it harder for a White House staff to focus. Few of the original team remain in place; among the survivors are Kellyanne Conway, the president’s counselor, and Stephen Miller, his senior policy adviser.

Ms. Conway said she frequently reminded colleagues that they served at the pleasure of the president. “There are only two people in the building that were elected to anything,” she said she told other staff members. “If you don’t hear your name on the list, get with the program or get out — Donald J. Trump and Michael Pence.”

Mr. Trump has long brought new people in and then cast others out in a perpetual cycle of advisers. The few with staying power tend to be members of the family, although even those who are exiled often stay in his orbit in some fashion. The president, several people close to him said this week, is increasingly running the Oval Office the way he ran his 26th-floor office at Trump Tower, with teams broken into small groups visiting him.

“It’s obviously very different from most presidents but it’s how Trump has operated,” said Andy Surabian, a former special assistant to Mr. Trump. “He’s someone who likes getting different opinions thrown at him. It’s a fascinating thing for a guy who’s very hardened on certain issues. But I view it as a big positive for him.”

Roger J. Stone Jr., Mr. Trump’s longest-serving political hand, said that the changes in staff were ultimately “a good thing because I think that’s how you get back Trumpism. The people who are leaving are the people who are telling him you can’t do this, the people who would dilute the platform on which he was elected.”

Mr. Trump has rebuffed concerns from allies and advisers about the tariffs, saying that he is right and that he believes he will be proven so. He has excoriated Mr. Cohn privately for choosing to leave.

Mr. Stone said that working in Mr. Trump’s favor is that “he’s extraordinarily stubborn. When he sets his mind to do something — for instance, utilize the threat of tariffs against those are utilizing tariffs against us — it doesn’t matter who his advisers are. He knows his own mind on this.”

At a news conference this week, Mr. Trump made clear that he thrived on the constant churning and hinted that there will be more departures soon, but he rejected the idea that he had trouble recruiting new people to work for him because “the White House has tremendous energy.”

“There will be people that change,” he said. “They always change. Sometimes they want to go out and do something else. But they all want to be in the White House. So many people want to come in, I have a choice of anybody. I could take any position in the White House and I’ll have a choice of the 10 top people having to do with that position.”

Still, even Mr. Trump has taken to joking about the revolving door lately. At the annual Gridiron Dinner last weekend with politicians and figures in the news media, he said, “I like chaos,” and called the turnover “invigorating.”

Almost as if he were previewing the next episode of a show, he added, “Who’s going to be the next to leave? Steve Miller or Melania?”

Listen and subscribe to our podcast from your mobile device: Via Apple Podcasts | Via RadioPublic | Via Stitcher

The salacious “dossier” that describes ties between Donald J. Trump and the Russian government is back in the news. The Trump administration says new reporting that the Clinton campaign helped to pay for that report is evidence that the entire Russia inquiry is just politics.

Also, we have a rare on-the-record conversation with President Trump’s top lawyer about the investigation.

On today’s episode:

• Kenneth P. Vogel, a New York Times reporter who covers the confluence of money, politics and influence, discusses the dossier and its origins.

• Matt Apuzzo, a Times reporter based in Washington, interviewed the president’s top lawyer, Ty Cobb, for our podcast “The New Washington.”

Background reading:

• What we know about the dossier on Mr. Trump’s connections to Russia, and where it came from.

• The Washington Free Beacon, a conservative website funded by a major Republican donor, first hired the research firm that produced the dossier for Democrats months later.

• Mr. Apuzzo’s interview with Mr. Cobb.

Tune in, and tell us what you think. Email us at thedaily@nytimes.com. Tweet me at @mikiebarb. And if you’re interested in advertising with “The Daily,” write to us at thedaily-ads@nytimes.com.

If you don’t see an audio player on this page or to subscribe to The Daily for free, follow the instructions below.

From your mobile device:

You can listen and subscribe to “The Daily” from any podcast player. If you’re reading this from an iPhone or other Apple mobile device, tap this link to listen in Apple Podcasts. If you’re on an Android device, tap this link to listen in Stitcher or this link to listen in RadioPublic.

Or if you prefer another podcast player, you can find “The Daily” there. (Here’s the RSS feed.)

From a desktop or laptop:

Click the “play” button above to start the show. Make sure to keep that window open on your browser if you’re doing other things, or else the audio will stop. You can always find the latest episode at nytimes.com/thedaily.

On Amazon Echo, Echo Dot or Tap:

Open the Alexa app. From the navigation panel on the left, select “settings,” then “flash briefing,” then “get more flash briefing content.” Look for “The New York Times” and select “enable skill.” Now you can say, “Alexa, what’s my flash briefing?” and you will hear that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

On Google Home:

You can say, “O.K., Google, play New York Times news” to listen to that day’s episode of “The Daily.”

• President Trump broke with precedent by delivering a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Friday, saying that “America first is not America alone.”

• Mr. Trump said earlier Friday that a New York Times report that he had ordered the firing of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was “fake news.”

• The president said separately that he thought he could persuade hard-liners in his party to accept a proposed immigration compromise.

1. Mr. Trump wants to be known as a businessman-president. His speech to one of the world’s most global meetings was almost entirely about how he is making the United States more attractive to investors. “America is open for business, and we are competitive once again,” he said.

“Historically I guess there’s never really been a businessman or business person elected president,” Mr. Trump said. “It’s always been a general or a politician.”

 2. The president made barely any mention of geopolitics, or major international issues like climate change. China was not noted at all. Nor was India, nor Iran nor even Europe.

Mr. Trump did, however, soften some of his nationalist rhetoric. He said he would “always put America first, just as the leaders of other countries should put their countries first.”

“But America first does not mean America alone,” he continued. “When the United States grows, so does the world.”

3. Mr. Trump predicted the recently passed tax cuts — including a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent — would result in billions of dollars in new investments and jobs.

The actual impact remains unclear. But the president claimed that several business leaders had made such promises to him in private meetings.

4. The president can stick to the script when he wants to. He read his entire speech carefully from a Teleprompter and did not go off-message — a tendency that has gotten him into trouble in the past.

Still, he could not resist referring to “fake news” outlets in a brief question-and-answer session after his speech.

“It wasn’t until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be,” he said.

5. There is at least one new way for companies to curry favor with Mr. Trump: giving their workers payouts related to the tax cut.

The cascade of bonuses, the president said, had been “like a big, beautiful waterfall.”

Of note: One company he specifically mentioned was the telecommunications giant AT&T, which is locked in a legal battle to get approval of its merger with Time Warner. —REBECCA BLUMENSTEIN

Speakers at the World Economic Forum usually celebrate globalization, praise diversity and decry climate change. So Friday’s speech by President Trump, who has at times voiced skepticism on all three stances, was warily awaited by the assembled business and government leaders.

They need not have worried.

Sounding more like the businessman he used to be than the outspoken populist he has become, Mr. Trump delivered a broad endorsement of recent Republican tax legislation. He said he favored free trade, provided that abusive trade practices by other countries were curbed. And he emphasized the importance of raising the prosperity of all Americans, particularly mentioning low unemployment among African-Americans.

But almost completely missing from his remarks was the sometimes confrontational nationalism of his election campaign and many of his tweets.

Mr. Trump instead portrayed the United States and other nations as having common interests.

He said that the United States was “lifting up forgotten communities,” and was fulfilling the dreams of Americans for “a great job, a safe home and a better life for their children.”

The president also took credit for rising share prices: “The stock market is smashing one record after another.”

Mr. Trump took visible delight in talking about companies that have already responded by offering bonuses to their workers. The rapidity with which companies acted, Mr. Trump said, was “something we didn’t anticipate.”

But discerning the future direction of American economic policy, and particularly American trade policy, was hard to do from Friday’s speech, as Mr. Trump instead appeared to be providing a broad vision of leadership. “I think I’ve been a cheerleader for our country,” he said. —KEITH BRADSHER

• For more on the intersection of business and policy at Davos, check out the DealBook Briefing.

During his speech, President Trump zeroed in on a recent announcement by Apple that it would bring the bulk of its foreign earnings back to the United States under a lower tax rate passed as part of the recent tax reform. Apple had said it estimated it would have a $350 billion impact on the American economy over the next five years.

How much of that goes beyond what Apple would have spent anyway?

The technology company’s current pace of spending in the United States is $55 billion for 2018, so it was already on track to spend $275 billion over the next five years. After a $38 billion tax payment for repatriating money is subtracted, that leaves its new investment at roughly $37 billion over the next five years.

How much of that, if any, would go toward manufacturing was unclear. Apple has said it plans to open a new domestic campus that, at least initially, will house technical support for customers. More than $10 billion of planned capital expenditures will go toward American data centers. More than 20,000 new jobs will be spread across facilities old and new. —TIFFANY HSU

Upon arrival at the Congress Center in Davos, President Trump was greeted by a scrum of the forum’s participants snapping cellphone photos and a large group of reporters asking why he had ordered the firing last June of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, as The New York Times reported.

“Fake news, folks,” Mr. Trump replied. “Fake news. A typical New York Times fake story.” —ELISABETH BUMILLER

While he is meeting with world leaders, President Trump is still partly focused on negotiations back home over immigration, asserting in an interview that he thought he could win over hard-liners in his party to a compromise deal.

He mentioned, in particular, Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas, David Perdue of Georgia and John Cornyn of Texas, and Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia. “These are people that really have shifted a lot,” he told CNBC. “They’ve really shifted a lot and I think they’re willing to shift more, and so am I.” —PETER BAKER

The president expressed regret for sharing anti-Muslim videos originally posted by an ultranationalist fringe group in Britain, but he made no apology on Friday for calling African nations “shithole countries,” or some variant of that phrase.

Mr. Trump said that when he retweeted the videos, which portrayed Muslims as violent attackers, he knew nothing about Britain First, the group that had originally posted them.

“If you are telling me they’re horrible people, horrible, racist people, I would certainly apologize, if you’d like me to do that,” Mr. Trump told Piers Morgan of the British broadcaster ITV, in an interview scheduled to air on Sunday.

The rare expression of repentance — one of Mr. Trump’s rules is “never apologize” — came as the president sought to patch up a badly strained relationship with Britain.

But Mr. Trump’s contrition and efforts at fence-mending went only so far: He ignored reporters’ questions on Friday about his derogatory remarks about African countries this month.

During a meeting with lawmakers, the president had said he thought the United States should accept more immigrants from countries like Norway, rather than Haiti or “shithole countries” in Africa, according to multiple reports. Mr. Trump has disputed the reports and some have suggested that he actually said “shithouse countries.”

After the remark was made public, Paul Kagame, president of Rwanda and chairman of the African Union, issued a statement demanding a retraction and “an apology to not only the Africans but to all people of African descent around the globe.”

Mr. Trump and Mr. Kagame met on Friday, shortly before Mr. Trump’s scheduled address to the World Economic Forum.

Mr. Kagame said that he had “good discussions” with Mr. Trump about the economy and trade, and he thanked Mr. Trump for his support. But the Rwandan leader made no mention of the furor over the comments. —PETER BAKER