Hundreds of thousands of so-called Dreamers — young adult immigrants who were brought to the United States illegally as children — could face possible deportation unless Congress can find a solution in the coming weeks.

In September, President Trump announced he would not renew the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, that provides these young people with certain temporary protections. The program is set to expire on March 5.

What should Congress do? What should Americans who care about this issue do? In this lesson, students learn more about the immigrants affected by this political standoff; evaluate the policy proposals being debated; and explore ways to have their voices heard on one of the most contentious issues in American politics.

_________

Warm Up

Barometer or Paired Activity: Share the four statements below with students and ask them to decide whether they agree or disagree with each. You may choose to have them spend a few minutes writing why they agree or disagree as well.

Agree or Disagree Statements:

• Throughout American history, immigrants have helped make the United States a better, stronger nation.• New immigrants continue to make the United States a better, stronger nation.• Undocumented immigrants living in the United States should be allowed to live, work and raise families here, and should only be deported if they commit serious crimes.• Immigrants who enter or stay in the United States without the appropriate legal documents are breaking the rules. They are not vetted like other immigrants, and they are not waiting in line the way the system requires.

If you do this as a barometer activity, post the terms “Strongly Agree” and “Strongly Disagree” at opposite ends of the classroom. Ask students to stand up and move to a spot in the classroom that most aligns with their beliefs about each statement. After you have read a statement and students have taken a stand on the continuum, ask a few volunteers to explain why they decided to stand where they did. If you choose to do this in pairs, have students talk together about their reactions. In both cases, you may want to first set ground rules about the language students should use to ensure that discussion of these issues is respectful.

Video: Then, have students watch this brief video featuring immigrants currently protected by DACA. Ask students to write down their reactions and any questions they have. Have the class share.

_______

Article and Questions

To get a better understanding of the politics surrounding DACA, have students read “What Is DACA? Who Are the Dreamers? Here Are Some Answers,” also available in this PDF (slightly abridged).

Here is an excerpt:

Ask students to answer the following questions as they read:

1. When was DACA introduced, and what benefits does it provide its participants?

2. Who are the Dreamers? What requirements must they meet to be eligible for DACA?

3. Why did President Trump announce in September he was ending DACA?

4. What concessions do the White House and many Republican lawmakers want in exchange for providing a path to citizenship for DACA beneficiaries?

5. Why are many progressives, immigrant advocates and DACA recipients hoping for a “clean” Dream Act, and what would that law offer the Dreamers?

6. What will happen if Congress cannot come up with a solution and the injunction against the DACA phaseout is lifted by the courts?

_________

Activity

Quote Sort: In this activity, students work in small groups to sort eight quotes about DACA, included in this PDF, into three piles:

Pile 1: Quotes we primarily agree or sympathize with Pile 2: Quotes we primarily disagree or do not sympathize with Pile 3: Quotes we cannot agree on

Students can take turns reading quotes aloud. After each quote is read, the group discusses which pile the quote belongs in.

Here are two examples of quotes included in the PDF:

After students sort the quotes, groups can report back to the class about which quotes they tended to agree or disagree with — or which quotes ended up in Pile 3 because they could not reach a consensus.

Closing Activity or Exit Ticket: Each student should choose one quote from the previous activity that he or she disagrees with and write a thoughtful response capturing what they think about the DACA program and what Congress should do. You may want to have students write their response as a letter addressed to that individual.

_________

The Learning Network will announce its Fifth Annual Student Editorial Contest on Feb. 28, and submissions will be accepted from then until April 5. Students can write editorials about anything, but one topic that certainly seems relevant right now is the issue of DACA and what will happen with the Dreamers. You can consult our 2017 rules to learn more about the contest while waiting for this year’s official announcement.

Before they get started, students can do additional research. Relevant articles in The Times include:

A Typical ‘Dreamer’ Lives in Los Angeles, Is From Mexico and Came to the U.S. at 6 Years OldWith DACA in Limbo, Teachers Protected by the Program Gird for the WorstMost Americans Want Legal Status for ‘Dreamers.’ These People Don’t.The Childhood Journeys That Made Them ‘Dreamers’For DACA Recipients, Losing Protection and Work Permits Is Just the StartAmerican DreamersTrump Immigration Plan Demands Tough Concessions From DemocratsSenate Begins ‘Wild’ Week of Debate on Immigration, Outcome Unknown

Alternatively, you can have students write their opinions in a letter or email that they send to a member of Congress. Use these links to find your Representative’s contact information and your Senator’s contact information.

_________

PBS | Lesson plan: How DACA Demonstrates the Importance of Civic Engagement

KQED | Lesson Plan: The History and Human Face of DACA

Anti-Defamation League | What Should Be Done About DACA?

Poor and working-class Americans have fallen behind over the last generation, receiving few of the gains of an expanding economy. But we could change that by using one of the most powerful tools in the federal government’s policy arsenal.

President-elect Donald J. Trump says he will do this by using large tax cuts on business and to wealthy families to encourage more business investment, while aiming to create more high-paying jobs in construction and manufacturing by spending more on new infrastructure projects and renegotiating trade deals.

But another, more direct approach is possible, one aimed at turbocharging the wages of people who have lost out on the economic gains of the last few decades. That could be done by expanding a tax credit that is already in place and enjoys bipartisan support. With the help of some smart policy wonks in Washington, I examined using tax policy this way. We found that it could work, but at no small cost.

On the positive side: You could replace every dime of income that the bottom 20 percent of earners have lost compared with the average family since 1979 by radically expanding a tax credit. But the main problem is this: It would be really expensive, at more than $1 trillion over the next decade, and therefore a hard sell in any political environment.

The lessons from this project have more relevance for the Trump administration — which isn’t likely to embrace this kind of technocratic wonkery — than it might seem at first glance.

Consider that Mr. Trump is betting on lower taxes on businesses and the investor class unleashing faster economic growth and preventing the budget deficit from skyrocketing. But he may want to consider hedging his bets. Policies that funnel direct benefits to lower-income workers might complement his trickle-down approach.

Put another way, as long as you’re cutting taxes by $6 trillion (that is the high-end direct cost estimate of Mr. Trump’s plan from the Tax Foundation), carving out $1 trillion for workers who haven’t seen large raises in years may just pay some dividends.

The background is that economic growth has far outpaced income growth for decades. Gross domestic product for each person in the United States was 78 percent higher in 2015 than in 1979. But the average income for those households at the 20th percentile of the income distribution rose only 6.9 percent in that span.

The reasons for this gap are endlessly debatable. Here are a few: The modern economy offers higher rewards for those with advanced education; globalization has diminished the prospects of the industries where working-class Americans once found lucrative jobs; a decline in the power of labor unions has left workers with less negotiating leverage.

Whatever the true cause, it is clear that the tax code could fix at least some of the imbalance. And there is already a program on the books that supplements the take-home earnings of working-class Americans. It is the earned-income tax credit, often simply called the E.I.T.C., and it could be used much more aggressively.

The earned-income tax credit already supplements the wages of people at the lower end of the pay scale, especially those with children. In its current form, for example, a married couple with two children that makes $30,000 a year receives a tax credit of $4,201.

The earned-income tax credit is accepted across the political spectrum: Both President Obama and the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, favor expanding it. It rewards only those who work, is efficiently administered through the tax code and phases out automatically as a person’s income rises.

How much more money in tax credits would be required to replace the income shortfall left by poorer people in recent decades?

Experts at two Washington think tanks — Bob Greenstein, Chuck Marr and Chye-Ching Huang of the nonprofit Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, along with the staff of the Tax Policy Center — examined that question at my request. The first step was to design a tax credit expansion that would raise the income of the bottom 20 percent of families to where they would be if they shared equally in the gains since 1979. That meant figuring out a tax change that would put an extra $2,889 in the pockets of a family of three that in 2013 made $20,420.

An increase in benefits also helps families with somewhat higher incomes. For example, a family of four making $40,000 would receive about $6,000 a year in this expanded E.I.T.C., compared with the $2,142 they get now. The benefits wouldn’t completely phase out for a family of four until they hit nearly $70,000 of income.

So what would it all cost? The Tax Policy Center crunched the numbers: The policy would deplete federal coffers by $1.02 trillion over a decade.

That is serious money.

There are many ways of raising it, none of them easy.

If you wanted to soak the wealthy to pay for it, for example, you could enact a 5.6 percentage point surtax on families with income over $1 million, as Senate Democrats once proposed — yet that would cover only about 45 percent of the cost. If you favor a more business-friendly approach, you could give companies tax incentives to repatriate money they are stashing abroad. But that would get you only about 30 percent of the way there.

So even if you conclude that a radical expansion of tax credits for working-class Americans is desirable, the politics of paying for it are somewhere between very hard and impossible. But that is where the Trump presidency comes in.

Mr. Trump’s campaign tax plan  already implies a far greater reduction in federal revenue than this idea does. He may be betting that lower taxes on businesses and the wealthy will spur investment that increases the productive potential of the economy — a classic Reagan-era “supply side” approach to taxes.

But skeptics may argue that what ails the economy right now is inadequate demand for goods and services, and that working-class people don’t have enough money. If they had extra cash in their pockets from an expanded E.I.T.C., they would be more likely than millionaires to spend the money, many economic studies suggest. That means that including help for the working class in any tax overhaul would add a “demand side” source of economic growth.

That won’t solve the problems of working-class Americans. The dissatisfaction with the modern global economy that helped propel Mr. Trump to office is deep rooted. It involves a feeling of lost possibility that a bit of money alone won’t solve. That is especially true for people who once saw manufacturing jobs as both a pathway to a middle-class income and a sense of purpose in life.

But while technocratic solutions involving tweaking the tax code won’t relieve the angst of Trump voters, if there are going to be big tax cuts in the months ahead, there is an economic rationale for spreading the benefits beyond the top.

WASHINGTON — President Trump’s social media director, Dan Scavino Jr., posted a message on his government Twitter account calling for the defeat of a Republican congressman who had angered the president.

His West Wing counselor, Kellyanne Conway, weighed in on the Alabama Senate race during television interviews from the White House lawn.

His son-in-law, Jared Kushner, used his White House title on a news release for Mr. Trump’s re-election bid.

All had complaints filed against them alleging violations of the Hatch Act, the federal law that since 1939 has barred government officials from using their positions to engage in partisan politics.

Over the past 14 months there have been at least eight complaints against White House officials for potential violations of the statute, according to a review by the agency charged with enforcing it. That number has put the Trump White House on a pace to far surpass the complaints against the staff of his predecessor.

A handful of high-profile violations and the increased number of complaints suggest that, more than a year after taking office, Mr. Trump — who has openly defied many norms of government ethics and transparency — is surrounded by aides who blur the line between their roles as partisans and public servants, sometimes skirting or disregarding altogether decades-old standards that govern the behavior of senior White House officials.

“This is an overall attitude this White House has about these rules, that they are just not all that important or they do not apply,” said Lawrence M. Noble, the senior director and general counsel of the Campaign Legal Center, the nonpartisan ethics watchdog group that filed the complaints against Ms. Conway. “There are clearly gray areas, but it’s not like occasionally they stumble into the gray areas; this seems to be willful ignoring of the rules.”

The Office of Special Counsel, the federal agency which enforces the Hatch Act, has an email inbox and telephone hotline devoted to fielding complaints, and, according to one official, has heard about more potential violations since Mr. Trump was sworn in than is typical, particularly three years before a general election campaign. Over the eight years of Barack Obama’s presidency, for example, the office received a total of six complaints about conduct by White House officials — a number Mr. Trump’s administration has already surpassed.

Not every complaint has led to a finding of a violation, and Mr. Trump’s aides argue that many are meritless claims by political opponents looking for ways to undercut the president. They also point to the increase in the use of Twitter and other platforms that make it more difficult to maintain a bright line between the official and the political.

“There are unprecedented efforts by outside political groups to use Hatch Act complaints as a vehicle to obstruct this administration, and exponential proliferation of social media platforms and messaging in this administration compared to any previous,” said Hogan Gidley, a deputy White House press secretary.

But the office recommended last week that Mr. Trump take disciplinary action against Ms. Conway, for having breached the statute during two television interviews late last year in which she used her official title while arguing in favor of Roy S. Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama, and against his Democratic rival, Doug Jones, with the White House as her backdrop. White House officials have suggested that Mr. Trump is not likely to punish her.

At the same time, the office received a complaint against Mr. Kushner for having briefed White House officials during a staff meeting in the West Wing about Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign, and its recent hire of Brad Parscale to lead the effort. It was the second Hatch Act complaint lodged against Mr. Kushner in two weeks, after one that cited his use of his White House title on a Trump campaign news release announcing Mr. Parscale’s position.

White House officials say they have made compliance with the Hatch Act a priority, providing multiple briefings to West Wing officials about how to avoid violations. The White House Counsel’s Office has stepped up its warnings to employees about the law since Mr. Trump officially kicked off his re-election bid, circulating fresh guidance from the Office of Special Counsel last week informing staff that, among other things, they must not use MAGA — the acronym for Mr. Trump’s 2016 “Make America Great Again” campaign slogan — in official communications or in their social media accounts.

When she appeared on Thursday at a campaign event in western Pennsylvania for Rick Saccone, the Republican candidate in a special congressional election to be held on Tuesday, Ms. Conway made sure to note that she was there in her “personal capacity.” And when Mr. Trump tweeted on Friday to “Vote Rick” using the MAGA hashtag, Stefan C. Passantino, the chief ethics lawyer in the counsel’s office, circulated an email warning White House officials not to retweet it, according to White House officials who spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to discuss internal communications.

Previous administrations have also run afoul of the Hatch Act, particularly in the run-up to presidential elections. Two Obama administration cabinet officials — Kathleen Sebelius, his secretary of health and human services; and Julián Castro, his secretary of housing and urban development — were cited for violations during Mr. Obama’s eight-year term, and a third, Hilda L. Solis, the secretary of labor, was investigated before she resigned.

Concerned about appearing to use his office or his administration improperly to boost Hillary Clinton’s candidacy, Mr. Obama barred members of his cabinet from addressing the Democratic National Convention in 2016.

Since Mr. Trump’s inauguration, the Office of Special Counsel has found violations by at least three officials, including Ms. Conway. It  issued a warning letter to Mr. Scavino for a tweet calling for the defeat in a primary of Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, who had been critical of the president. And it reported last year that Nikki R. Haley, the ambassador to the United Nations, had breached the Hatch Act in June by retweeting Mr. Trump’s endorsement of a South Carolina congressional candidate.

Many other complaints have been investigated and dismissed. The office received a flood of calls in January, during a brief government shutdown, after the White House comment line informed callers that their inquiries could not be answered “because congressional Democrats are holding government funding for our troops and other national security priorities hostage to an unrelated immigration debate.”

While the use of a taxpayer-funded public comment line to spread a partisan message was unusual in the view of many ethics experts, it was not considered a violation of the Hatch Act because it did not advocate for or against any one candidate.

The administration can largely decide how strictly to enforce the Hatch Act, because the agency charged with policing it has no power to mete out discipline. The Office of Special Counsel refers violations by White House officials and presidential appointees to the president, who decides whether and how to punish them. In cases involving rank-and-file federal employees, the office can request disciplinary action by the Merit Systems Protection Board, a quasi-judicial agency.

Mr. Trump’s lawyers have suggested in recent days that they take a relatively narrow view of the conduct prohibited by the Hatch Act, which has exemptions only for the president and the vice president. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters last week that Ms. Conway’s interviews — in which she clearly expressed support for Mr. Moore and opposition to Mr. Jones — did not violate the Hatch Act because she was expressing the president’s policy position.

The White House Counsel’s Office had made the same assertion to the Office of Special Counsel, which rejected the argument in its report reprimanding Ms. Conway. The office said the position “lacks merit,” and “would render meaningless the Hatch Act’s prohibition against using one’s official authority or influence for the purpose of interfering with or affecting the result of an election.”

If the White House’s position were adopted, the office said, “federal employees in their official capacity would be free to express electoral preferences and claim immunity from the Hatch Act by hiding behind the president’s statements about candidates and declaring they were merely carrying out their official duties in support of the administration’s agenda.”

Watchdog groups said they were concerned that the argument gave tacit permission to Trump administration officials to disregard the law.

“The White House made clear that not only are they not going to take disciplinary action, but they didn’t even accept the finding of a clear-cut case,” said Noah Bookbinder, the executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, a nonpartisan watchdog group that filed the complaints against Mr. Kushner. “Which seems to send the message to White House employees that they can do whatever they like.”

WASHINGTON — President Obama halted the withdrawal of American military forces from Afghanistan on Thursday, announcing that the United States will keep thousands of troops in the country through the end of his term in 2017 and indefinitely prolonging the American role in a war that has already lasted 14 years.

In a brief statement from the Roosevelt Room in the White House, Mr. Obama said he continued to oppose the idea of “endless war.” But the president, who once traveled to Afghanistan to declare “the light of a new day on the horizon,” said Thursday that a longer-term American presence there was vital to the security of the United States and a country that is beset by the Taliban, their allies from Al Qaeda, and militants from the Islamic State.

“While America’s combat mission in Afghanistan may be over, our commitment to Afghanistan and its people endures,” said Mr. Obama, flanked by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. and top military leaders. “I will not allow Afghanistan to be used as safe haven for terrorists to attack our nation again.”

The decision, reached after what White House officials called an “extensive, lengthy review,” ensures that Mr. Obama will leave office in 15 months without making good on a seminal promise of his presidency: to responsibly end the military involvements started by his predecessor, George W. Bush, and withdraw all American troops from the battlefields of Iraq and Afghanistan.

While the president has succeeded in vastly reducing the American military presence in both countries, the United States has returned a modest force to Iraq to help Baghdad in its fight against the Islamic State. And with Thursday’s announcement, Mr. Obama leaves a commitment of thousands of troops — and the decision about how and when to end the war in Afghanistan — to his successor.

The current American force in Afghanistan of 9,800 troops will remain in place through most of 2016 under the administration’s revised plans, before dropping to about 5,500 at the end of next year or in early 2017, Mr. Obama said. He called it a “modest but meaningful expansion of our presence” in that country.

The president said he was not disappointed by a decision that clouds what he had said in 2012 was “a clear path to fulfill our mission in Afghanistan.” Mr. Obama said Thursday that the administration had always understood the potential for adjustments in troop levels even as the military sought to withdraw troops from battle.

But by making his announcement, Mr. Obama conceded that despite more than a decade of fighting, and years building the Afghan Army and the police — a project that has cost the United States more than $65 billion — the Afghan forces are still not fully up to the task of protecting their country.

The Taliban are now spread through more parts of the country than at any point since 2001, according to the United Nations. Last month they scored their biggest victory of the war, seizing the northern city of Kunduz and holding it for more than two weeks before pulling back.

Mr. Obama noted the dangers, saying, “In key areas of the country, the security situation is still very fragile, and in some areas, there is risk of deterioration.” After 2017, he said, American forces will remain on several bases in Afghanistan to “give us the presence and the reach our forces require to achieve their mission.”

He did not specifically mention Iraq, where a full troop withdrawal has been followed by a surge in violence from the Islamic State. But he said the mission in Afghanistan had the benefit of a clear objective, a supportive government and legal agreements that protect American forces — three factors not present in Iraq.

“Every single day, Afghan forces are out there fighting and dying to protect their country,” Mr. Obama said. “They’re not looking for us to do it for them.”

Officials said some of the American troops will continue to train and advise Afghan forces, while others will carry on the search for Qaeda fighters, militants from the Islamic State and other groups that have found a haven in Afghanistan.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said politics played “absolutely no role” in the president’s decision. But he said the next president — Democrat or Republican — will inherit a situation that is a “dramatically improved one when compared to the situation that President Obama inherited.”

Critics said Mr. Obama’s actions did not go far enough to confront Al Qaeda and other threats in Afghanistan.

“While this new plan avoids a disaster, it is certainly not a plan for success,” Representative Mac Thornberry, Republican of Texas and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, said in a statement.

Speaker John A. Boehner said in a separate statement that he was “glad the administration finally admits President Obama’s arbitrary political deadlines are ‘self-defeating.’ ”

Even before Kunduz fell to the Taliban, the administration had been under growing pressure to abandon plans that would have cut by about half the number of troops in Afghanistan next year, and then drop the American force to about 1,000 troops based only at the embassy in Kabul by the start of 2017.

Now, instead of falling back to the American Embassy, Mr. Obama said, the military will be able to maintain operations at Bagram Air Field to the north of Kabul, the main American hub in Afghanistan, and at bases outside Kandahar in the country’s south and Jalalabad in the east. The bases are crucial for counterterrorism operations and for flying drones used by the military and the C.I.A., which had also argued for keeping troops in Afghanistan to help protect its own assets.

President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan also pressed for Mr. Obama to keep more troops in his country. Many in Washington feared an American pullback just when Afghanistan had a leader who, unlike his predecessor, Hamid Karzai, appears willing to partner with the United States and is acutely aware of his country’s need for help from the United States and its NATO allies.

The American military has repeatedly stepped in this year to aid Afghan forces battling the Taliban, launching airstrikes and at times sending Special Operations troops to join the fight. But the recent fighting in Kunduz also exposed the limits of foreign forces in Afghanistan, which now total 17,000, including American and NATO troops.

Thursday was not the first time the administration has revised its withdrawal plans. During Mr. Ghani’s visit to Washington in March, Mr. Obama announced that the United States would keep 9,800 troops in Afghanistan through 2015, instead of cutting the force in half, as had been originally planned. At the time, the White House maintained that almost all troops would be pulled out by 2017.

His announcement will allow the military to continue carrying out secret operations focused primarily in eastern Afghanistan against people it suspects of being militant leaders. Those operations are intended to follow a “lighter footprint” model of targeted strikes.

New details about the Pentagon’s drone war from 2011 to early 2013 were disclosed on Thursday in classified documents published by The Intercept, a national security news website. The documents included a set of briefing slides assessing Operation Haymaker, an effort to hunt down Taliban and Qaeda militants in Afghanistan from January 2012 to February 2013.

During that period, there were 56 airstrikes that killed 35 suspects. Those strikes also killed 219 people who do not appear to have been specifically targeted but were labeled “enemy killed in action,” the documents showed.