WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday embraced Muslims in the United States as part of “one American family” and implicitly criticized the Republican presidential candidates in a warning to citizens to not be “bystanders to bigotry.”

In a visit to the Islamic Society of Baltimore, his first to a mosque in the United States as president, Mr. Obama recited phrases from the Quran and praised American Muslims as a crucial part of America’s history and vital to the nation’s future.

“And so if we’re serious about freedom of religion — and I’m speaking now to my fellow Christians who remain the majority in this country — we have to understand an attack on one faith is an attack on all our faiths,” Mr. Obama said.

Although Mr. Obama never mentioned Republican presidential candidates like Donald J. Trump, who has called for a temporary ban on Muslims entering the United States, the targets in his remarks were clear. “We have to reject a politics that seeks to manipulate prejudice or bias, and targets people because of religion,” he said.

The speech served as a bookend to a 2009 address Mr. Obama delivered at Cairo University, where he called for “a new beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world.” In Baltimore, the president did not talk about intractable international conflicts like the Israeli-Palestinian dispute and focused instead on the more prosaic reality of vandalized mosques and bullied American Muslim children.

“These children are just like mine,” Mr. Obama said. “And the notion that they would be filled with doubt and questioning their places in this great country of ours at a time when they’ve got enough to worry about — it’s hard being a teenager already — that’s not who we are.”

Although President George W. Bush visited a mosque in Washington within six days of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to reassure American Muslims, Mr. Obama, a Christian, brushed aside requests for a visit for years in part because 43 percent of Republicans and 29 percent of Americans think he is a Muslim, according to a CNN/ORC poll last September. Aides feared a mosque visit would feed into that perception.

But in the final year of his presidency, Mr. Obama has lost much of his reticence in addressing issues like race, addiction and religion, often in very personal terms. Administration officials said there had been little internal debate about Mr. Obama visiting an American mosque since talk about it began at the White House last fall.

In an aside that drew considerable laughter, Mr. Obama told the crowd at the mosque that controversy over a president’s religion is not new. “By the way, Thomas Jefferson’s opponents tried to stir things up by suggesting he was a Muslim — so I was not the first,” he said, adding: “I’m in good company.”

For Mr. Obama, the remarks were also an admission of how little progress has been made since the speech in Cairo, where he called for “a sustained effort to listen to each other, to learn from each other, to respect one another, and to seek common ground.” In his speech on Wednesday, he suggested that his hopes for a reconciliation had been dashed, but he called on all Americans to stick by the country’s founding ideals.

Muslims in the audience hailed the address.

“I think it was one of the best speeches he’s ever given,” said Representative André Carson, an Indiana Democrat. Representative Keith Ellison, a Minnesota Democrat, said the speech “hit me in the heart” and was a vital antidote to growing intolerance.

“I have a 19-year-old daughter who is a Muslim and wants to contribute to her nation, and it bugs me that someone who says he wants to be president would want to exclude her,” Mr. Ellison said.

But Morton Klein, president of the Zionist Organization of America, one of the country’s oldest and largest pro-Israel organizations, denounced Mr. Obama for visiting a mosque whose leaders, Mr. Klein said, have among other issues criticized Israeli military actions. “Going to such a mosque only encourages radical Muslims to harm Americans,” Mr. Klein said.

White House and Islamic Society of Baltimore officials did not respond to Mr. Klein’s criticism. Ibrahim Hooper, a spokesman for the Council on American-Islamic Relations, said that “any mosque would have been attacked similarly.”

Concerns about Muslims and Syrian refugees in the United States grew after terrorist attacks in Paris in November claimed the lives of 130 people and after a mass shooting by a husband-and-wife team in San Bernardino, Calif., in December left 14 people dead and 22 seriously wounded.

Since then, attacks on American Muslims and mosques have spiked, according to the Council on American-Islamic Relations. At a meeting at the White House last month, prominent American Muslims pleaded with senior administration officials to have the president visit a mosque in the hope of stemming such attacks.

A portion of Mr. Obama’s speech in Baltimore was a kind of primer, in which he offered “some basic facts” on Islam and the United States that he said the news media had failed to communicate.

Among those facts: Islam is a religion of peace. Some of the earliest Americans were Muslim. Jefferson and other founding fathers sought to guarantee the freedom of Muslims to worship. Muslims are everywhere in American society as doctors, teachers, soldiers and sports stars.

Mr. Obama said that too many Americans heard about Islam only after terrorist attacks, and that this must change. “Our television shows should have some Muslim characters that are unrelated to national security,” he said. “It’s not that hard to do. There was a time when there were no black people on television.”

Mr. Obama also said that anyone who suggested that the United States was at war with Islam not only legitimized such groups as the Islamic State but also played into their hands. “That kind of mind-set helps our enemies,” he said. “It helps our enemies recruit. It makes us all less safe.”

Doris Kearns Goodwin, a presidential scholar, likened Mr. Obama’s visit and warnings against anti-Muslim language to warnings made by two other presidents at the end of their terms.

“George Washington warned his countrymen against the increasing power of factions which kindle animosity of one against the other, while Eisenhower warned against the unwarranted influence of the military industrial complex,” she wrote in an email.

Mr. Obama ended his speech by reminding Muslim Americans, “You are not alone, your fellow Americans stand with you.” And he reminded others that the country’s diversity “is not a weakness, that is one of our greatest strengths.”

“We are one American family,” he said. “We will rise and fall together.”

WASHINGTON — President-elect Donald J. Trump’s aides often cite his appearances at professional wrestling matches as an inspiration for his outsize political speaking style, and his buoyantly belligerent news conference in New York on Wednesday proved he has no plans to betray his brawler’s roots in the service of seeming more presidential.

Mr. Trump delivered a stream-of-consciousness survey of his transition to the presidency and an update on the state of his psyche, holding forth on his being a “germaphobe,” his belief that many foreign governments secretly videotape Americans in “the strangest places” inside hotel rooms, and his low opinion of BuzzFeed, which published an unsubstantiated report prepared by the intelligence community that Russia had collected compromising information on him.

With Hillary Clinton vanquished, Mr. Trump trained his ire on the ripest adversary at hand, the “left-wing” news media. The news conference began with Sean Spicer, who will soon occupy the dual roles of White House press secretary and communications director, acting as an angry M.C., berating the news media for following up on the unverified report. Then Mr. Trump shouted down a CNN correspondent, accusing the network of broadcasting the same “fake news.”

The fact that Mr. Trump’s performance was midrange for him doesn’t mean it is normal behavior for a president. “It’s absolutely without precedent, and even Republicans are really going to notice the absence of Obama, who was deeply concerned about elevating the reputation of the office,” the presidential historian Douglas Brinkley said.

The inauguration is still eight days away, but Wednesday may be remembered as the day that ushered in the Trump era. The way was cleared by President Obama, who, in Chicago 14 hours before Mr. Trump’s news conference, gave what was billed as the final word on his presidency. And seldom has the contrast between a departing president and his successor been so stark.

Mr. Obama delivered a solemn farewell, modeled, his aides said, on George Washington’s 1796 call for national unity. The way Mr. Trump stepped into the spotlight in the lobby of Trump Tower — taking turns onstage with aides, alternatively enraged and solicitous, and clearly loving the attention — owed more to the WrestleMania spectacles staged by Mr. Trump’s friend Vince K. McMahon, the World Wrestling Entertainment founder.

Not surprisingly, aides to Mr. Trump and Mr. Obama had conflicting interpretations of the stylistic contrast.

“To me, the irony of the split screen is that the guy who is leaving actually represents the future, and the guy who is replacing him represents the past,” said Dan Pfeiffer, Mr. Obama’s former communications director.

Kellyanne Conway, who was Mr. Trump’s campaign manager and will be a counselor to the president, said the president-elect’s critics “just don’t get it” and are missing his appeal to voters who are fed up with Washington. “Mr. Trump is going to do what he was elected to do, which is to challenge the establishment,” she said.

Mr. Obama also rode into town on a wave of disgust with the status quo in 2008, although his support came from a Democratic Party rebelling against the Iraq war and the social conservatism of President George W. Bush. But his political style was bookish, austere and far more subdued than Mr. Trump’s.

At his first news conference in the White House, in the middle of the economic collapse, Mr. Obama issued a terse and sober assessment of the national situation that included a detailed discussion of his recovery plans and a comparison of the Great Recession to the situations that President Franklin D. Roosevelt faced in the 1930s and that Japanese policy makers dealt with during their crisis in the 1990s.

Mr. Obama’s criticisms of Mr. Bush’s low-tax economic policies were pointed, but respectful.

Mr. Trump’s election hasn’t tempered his tongue when it comes to adversaries. On Wednesday, he mocked Mrs. Clinton by name when he was pressed on his dealings with Russia and its president, Vladimir V. Putin. “Do you honestly believe that Hillary would be tougher on Putin than me?” he asked reporters. “Does anybody in this room really believe that? Give me a break.”

He was even more contemptuous of Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, a marginal opponent during the Republican presidential primary contests who is prodding the president-elect to tighten sanctions on Moscow. “He is going to crack that 1 percent barrier one day,” Mr. Trump joked, a reference to Mr. Graham’s low poll numbers when he was a candidate.

Mr. Obama, like his successor, hasn’t been afraid to criticize the news media. But his attacks tend to be selective and based on his belief that journalists can be too obsessed with clicks to do their job responsibly. Last month at his final news conference, he singled out the reporting on the hacked emails of the Clinton adviser John D. Podesta. “You guys wrote about it every day,” Mr. Obama said. “Every single leak, including John Podesta’s risotto recipe.”

Mr. Trump has been far less restrained and has made bashing the news media a defining characteristic of his politics. On Wednesday, he tore into BuzzFeed and other outlets that published articles on the Russia report. “There’s been such a concerted effort by some in the mainstream media to delegitimize this election and to demean our incoming administration,” he said.

Mr. Trump’s approach is less madness than method, underscoring his toughness and subjecting reporters to a fusillade of verbiage that makes it hard to focus the public on any single controversy, in this case, the allegations against Russia.

But there were more tangible signs of the new era beyond Mr. Trump’s news conference.

The Trump White House vaulted from abstraction to reality this week with the start of contentious hearings on the nominations of Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama for attorney general and Rex W. Tillerson for secretary of state. In the middle of his news conference, almost as an afterthought, Mr. Trump announced that he was naming his latest cabinet appointee, Dr. David J. Shulkin, to be secretary of veterans affairs.

The biggest problem Mr. Trump confronted in the news conference, and the one that threatens to spill into the first months of his presidency, involves the allegations that Russia not only tried to influence the election in his favor, but also gathered compromising intelligence on him.

Before Mr. Trump answered a single question on Wednesday, he and his team rolled out a seemingly prescripted 30-minute denial of the unsubstantiated allegations involving him from his spokesman, Mr. Spicer. Next came a more muted statement by Vice President-elect Mike Pence and a forceful statement by Mr. Trump, who railed against leaks by intelligence agencies.

But delving into policy and answering questions about his behavior aren’t the only goals of Mr. Trump’s periodic sparring sessions with the news media. Unlike Mr. Obama, who prides himself on his participation in the drafting of speeches, Mr. Trump cares far more about visual imagery and likes to use props.

Ten years ago, nearly to the day, Mr. Trump dumped tens of thousands of dollars on delighted fans at a WWE fan appreciation night, bragging that he had upstaged Mr. McMahon.

His Trump Tower appearance on Wednesday featured a less flashy theatrical flourish: A table near his lectern was heaped with paper-filled manila folders intended to illustrate his commitment to disentangling himself from his businesses.

President Obama wears one brand of underwear, always the same color. He shaves before working out in the morning. And he picks out his own suit.

“I have a closet like normal people do,” he told Jerry Seinfeld in the season premiere of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee.”

Mr. Seinfeld picked up the president for their coffee date in a 1963 Corvette Stingray, but Mr. Obama also invited the comedian to sit in a presidential Cadillac he called “the beast.”

“I could call a nuclear submarine right here from this,” the president said. “It’s a cool feature. Plus seat warmers.”

The two never left the White House grounds for coffee (though Mr. Seinfeld tried) and spent the bulk of the episode sitting at a table in what looked like a not-so-fancy cafeteria.

Mr. Obama answered mostly nonpolitical questions during the conversation that was taped on Dec. 7 — though he did compare politics to football and at one point dutifully plugged the Affordable Care Act. (“Please try Obamacare today,” Mr. Seinfeld chimed in.)

When asked how many world leaders are “completely out of their mind,” the president responded: “a pretty sizable percent.”

He explained: “At a certain point your feet hurt and you’re having trouble peeing and you have absolute power.”

The pair also talked about how the actor Larry David applies sunscreen on the golf course.

“It’s dripping and it’s caked white all over and it catches parts of his ears and there’s big blobs of it,” Mr. Obama said.

The president acknowledged that he curses when situations become “even dumber or more annoying than usual.” But perhaps the most revealing part of the interview was about his favorite food: nachos.

“I’ll have guacamole coming out of my eyeballs,” Mr. Obama said.

His passion for nachos could help explain why he jumped into the debate about adding peas to guacamole earlier this year.

TOKYO — As recently as five years ago, a Japanese prime minister was in Hawaii for an economic summit meeting, but pointedly stayed away from Pearl Harbor.

In the coming week, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe will fly to Hawaii for the express purpose of visiting the site of the surprise attack on a United States naval base 75 years ago that killed 2,400 Americans and drew the country into World War II.

It is a sign of how far public opinion in Japan has moved that Mr. Abe can make the trip to the memorial, accompanied by President Obama, to offer condolences to the victims.

For decades, Japan has struggled to reckon with its wartime history, and the Pearl Harbor attack has been cast as a tragic but inevitable response to an American-led oil embargo that would have devastated the Japanese imperial empire.

Because of domestic political opposition, it has been all but impossible for Japanese leaders to visit Pearl Harbor until now. In 1994, when Emperor Akihito tried to visit the memorial, atop the remains of the U.S.S. Arizona, the American battleship on which the worst losses occurred, protests from Japan’s nationalist right wing prompted him to alter his plans.

But after Mr. Abe, who is a conservative politician with strong ties to nationalist groups, announced his plans this month, the reception in Japan was largely positive.

Even the far-right Sankei newspaper — though grumbling that Mr. Abe should first revisit Yasukuni, a shrine in Tokyo where war criminals are enshrined — described Mr. Abe’s trip to Hawaii as “an opportunity to refresh a commitment to deepen the U.S.-Japan friendship and contribute peace to the world through a tranquil ceremony.”

Some Japanese news media suggested that the Pearl Harbor trip could even lift  Mr. Abe’s approval ratings and give him the confidence to call an election in January.

The Japanese public is also aware of the importance of a symbolic visit to Pearl Harbor at a time of uncertainty in its country’s relationship with the United States.

Although the premier’s visit to Pearl Harbor was in the planning stages even before the American presidential election, Donald J. Trump’s win scared Japanese leaders because he had spent time on the campaign trail castigating Japan for not paying enough for its own defense. And when Mr. Obama made a visit to Hiroshima in May, Mr. Trump posted on Twitter: “Does President Obama ever discuss the sneak attack on Pearl Harbor while he’s in Japan? Thousands of American lives lost.”

Mr. Abe is not the first sitting prime minister to visit the Pearl Harbor memorial (Prime Minister Shigeru Yoshida apparently visited the memorial during a stop in Hawaii in 1951), but he will be the first to participate in a public ceremony there.

He is not expected to apologize for the attacks, much as Mr. Obama did not apologize for the atomic bombing of Hiroshima. Instead, Mr. Abe will most likely repeat the repentance and condolences he offered in April 2015 when he addressed Congress.

Although it was 75 years in the making, Mr. Abe’s trip to Pearl Harbor is in some ways the easiest gesture of reconciliation that Japan could make as it confronts its wartime past.

Asia has long been plagued by an inability among the war’s combatants to move beyond its events and enmities. South Korea and China remain angered by what they see as Japanese efforts to ignore or sugarcoat atrocities. By contrast, the relationship between Japan and the United States long ago overcame such difficulties.

“I think that’s because the United States was a good winner and Japan was a good loser,” said Tamaki Tsukada, a spokesman at the Japanese Embassy in Washington. “The United States was magnanimous after defeating Japan. It did not impose harsh terms. If anything, the U.S. provided very generous support, humanitarian and economic.” The Japanese accepted the American postwar occupation peacefully.

Even in the United States, where “Remember Pearl Harbor” was once a rallying cry, the sense of outrage about what was viewed as a sneaky and disreputable attack has largely dissipated, said Daniel Martinez, the chief historian at the Pearl Harbor memorial. Part of that is time, and also sympathetic popular culture portrayals of Japanese attackers in movies like “Tora! Tora! Tora!” and “Pearl Harbor,” Mr. Martinez said.

“I never hated the Japanese, and I don’t need an apology,” said Stu Hedley, 95, who was a seaman on the battleship West Virginia, which settled to the bottom of the harbor after the attack. “I welcome this visit.”

In Japan, Pearl Harbor is often defined as one bookend of a war that ended with the American atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, which some Japanese see as morally absolving the country of its aggression.

Guidelines from the Ministry of Education for teaching history stipulate that students learn that “Japan caused tremendous damage to many countries, especially in Asia, and that Japan also suffered unprecedented damages in the Tokyo air raids, the Battle of Okinawa and in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.”

While most Japanese students visit Hiroshima or Nagasaki at least once during their school years, Pearl Harbor merits just one or two lines in most textbooks.

“The younger generation knows the term Pearl Harbor, but they don’t know much about it,” said Katsutoshi Chujo, a middle school history teacher near Tokyo. “Most young people don’t know much about the war. They know about Japan as a victim in Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the Tokyo air raids.”

Several textbooks used in public schools describe it as a surprise attack on the United States that followed a long campaign in China. But a textbook that takes a more nationalist view and that has been approved by the Education Ministry portrays the attacks as being forced by American demands and describes Japan as waging a war of “self-defense.”

Some historians worry that Mr. Abe’s visit to Pearl Harbor will forestall broader atonement for Japan’s wartime aggression in Asia. “By commemorating Pearl Harbor, if the whole society marginalizes the whole process that led to Pearl Harbor, that commemoration becomes an act of forgetting as well,” said Yujin Yaguchi, a professor of American studies at the University of Tokyo.

In the complex and highly choreographed world of war memory, scholars say, Mr. Abe’s trip to Pearl Harbor is an important, if early, step.

“There is a chronology to public memory,” said Carol Gluck, a professor of history at the Weatherhead East Asian Institute at Columbia University. “Everybody doesn’t remember what they ought to remember in some abstract moral calculus. It’s very political, and the domestic political calculus comes first.”

With some on the left in Japan calling for Mr. Abe to visit important war memorials in South Korea or China, analysts say political leaders need to build trust and share broader strategic goals before such symbolic gestures can take place. While Japan has a strong alliance with the United States, it does not share that kind of trust with China, and its relationship with South Korea is still shaky.

“These visits don’t cause reconciliation,” said Jennifer Lind, an associate professor of government at Dartmouth College and the author of “Sorry States: Apologies in International Politics.” “It’s the exact opposite. Reconciliation causes these visits.”

WASHINGTON —  The first time President Obama sat down to pick a new Supreme Court justice, surprised aides discovered that he had gone beyond the briefing memos to read the leading candidate’s past judicial rulings. The president, a onetime constitutional law teacher, was in his element, a “legal nerd,” as one aide called him, putting theory into practice.

But if nothing else, the last seven years have made clear to Mr. Obama that the Supreme Court is anything but a nerdy, academic exercise. His current standoff with the Senate over replacing Justice Antonin Scalia culminates a profoundly consequential struggle over not just the law, but power, politics and his legacy.

During his two terms in the White House, the Supreme Court has given Mr. Obama fits, given him reprieves and now given him a new mission for his final year in office. He has publicly feuded with the court as few of his modern predecessors have. By one measure, he has enjoyed less success before the court than any president since World War II. But today his unexpected chance to remake the court depends on overcoming the formidable will of Senate Republicans.

“It’s fair to say he’s had a more contentious relationship with the court than any president I can remember, at least since Nixon,” said Curt Levey, a veteran of judicial nomination battles and executive director of the FreedomWorks Foundation, a conservative advocacy group. “This is a fight to the death for control of the Supreme Court.”

Mr. Obama arrives at this fight with a complicated history with the court. Perhaps no president since William Howard Taft, a former judge and future Supreme Court chief justice, entered the White House more immersed in constitutional theory than Mr. Obama, and few in modern times have seen theory explode into political reality more starkly.

Whatever ivory-tower romance Mr. Obama once harbored for the court has been hardened by years of conflict. The court unanimously slapped him down for exceeding his power to make recess appointments. It ruled that he overstepped by trying to force family businesses like Hobby Lobby to pay for insurance coverage of contraceptives despite their religious beliefs. The court also overturned campaign finance laws and part of the Voting Rights Act over his objections.

The court agreed with Mr. Obama on legalizing same-sex marriage and, in perhaps the most notable cases for his presidency, twice upheld the Affordable Care Act against determined conservative challenges. But even in preserving Mr. Obama’s signature domestic initiative, the court invalidated part of the health care program requiring states to expand Medicaid coverage, resulting in 19 states opting not to do so.

A study by FiveThirtyEight.com, a news analysis website, found at the end of the last court term in June that the Obama administration had won just 47 percent of the Supreme Court cases it was a party to, fewer than any of the 11 previous presidents going back to Harry S. Truman.

Until Mr. Obama, John F. Kennedy had the lowest victory rate since World War II, winning 58 percent of his cases. Ronald Reagan had the highest success rate among modern presidents, with 73 percent. Mr. Obama’s supporters attribute his record to an ideologically conservative court, while opponents say it stems from what they call the president’s aggressive abuses of power.

Mr. Obama’s more recent predecessors have struggled with the court. Bill Clinton lost a 9-to-0 decision when he tried to delay a sexual harassment lawsuit by a former Arkansas state worker until after his presidency, a lawsuit that ultimately led to the disclosure of his liaisons with Monica Lewinsky and his impeachment for perjury and obstruction of justice.

The Supreme Court ordered the end of recounts in Florida that cleared the way for George W. Bush’s ascension to the presidency, but after he took office the justices rejected his broad interpretations of his executive power to hold terror suspects at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, without judicial review and to try them before military commissions.

Mr. Obama has made his defeats into a public issue, taking his argument onto the campaign trail and chastising the justices in person at a State of the Union address for their ruling in the Citizens United campaign finance case. In publicizing that his administration had made no backup plans if his health care plan were struck down, critics said he was essentially trying to pressure the court, an interpretation his advisers reject.

Mr. Obama has experienced the court in three distinct phases — teaching constitutional law for 12 years at the University of Chicago, voting on Supreme Court nominees for four years as a senator and selecting nominees and litigating cases for seven years as president.

“When Obama taught at Chicago and when I got to know him, he was a believer in the role of the court maintaining our constitutional system and protecting constitutional rights,” said Prof. Geoffrey R. Stone, a colleague at the university. “But he was always pretty moderate in his views. He was not someone who was a strong judicial activist.”

Mr. Obama expressed reservations about the activism of Chief Justice Earl Warren’s court, although he supported its liberal rulings on segregation and civil rights. “His view was that the Warren court was too active for his taste,” Professor Stone said.

In his 2006 book, “The Audacity of Hope,” Mr. Obama suggested the left would have been better off winning battles in the electoral arena. “I wondered if, in our reliance on the courts to vindicate not only our rights but also our values, progressives had lost too much faith in democracy,” he wrote.

Still, in a 2007 speech, he said compassion, not just the letter of the law, should come into play. “We need somebody who’s got the heart, the empathy, to recognize what it’s like to be a young teenage mom,” he said. “The empathy to understand what it’s like to be poor or African-American or gay or disabled or old. And that’s the criteria by which I’m going to be selecting my judges.”

He argued the Senate had every right to block a president’s choices, even by filibuster. “Because federal judges receive lifetime appointments and often serve through the terms of multiple presidents, it behooves a president — and benefits our democracy — to find moderate nominees who can garner some measure of bipartisan support,” he wrote in his book.

He voted against the confirmation of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. and supported a filibuster against Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. that ultimately failed. From the vantage point of a president whose own nominations are subject to filibuster, Mr. Obama has come to regret his support for the Alito filibuster, his spokesman said recently.

But conservatives see his focus on empathy as code for steering cases based on desired outcomes. “On matters that he really cares about, there’s no meaningful difference between his political views and his constitutional views,” said M. Edward Whelan III, president of the Ethics & Public Policy Center and a former Scalia clerk. In effect, “the empathy standard that he’s used in nominating justices is just camouflage for judicial lawlessness.”

Mr. Obama in recent years has dropped the word “empathy” but has found other ways of expressing the sentiment. In a post last week on Scotusblog, a website that tracks the Supreme Court, Mr. Obama said he wants a justice who interprets the law and does not make it.

But some decisions, he added, “will be shaped by his or her own experience, ethics and judgment.” Justice, he added, “is not about abstract legal theory, nor some footnote in a dusty casebook. It’s the kind of life experience earned outside the classroom and the courtroom.”

Mr. Obama has had two chances until now to reorient the court through his nominations of Justices Sonia Sotomayor in 2009 and Elena Kagan a year later.

“He approached this in a very lawyerly, kind of scholarly way,” recalled Cynthia Hogan, who as a White House lawyer helped direct the process. “He was looking for someone who was going to be supersmart and approach the law in a reasonable way.”

Indeed, he disappointed some of his liberal supporters who were looking for more firebrand choices, a Justice Scalia for the left. Justices Sotomayor and Kagan have both turned out to be reliable votes for the liberal wing of the court. But because they replaced two retiring liberals, Justices David H. Souter and John Paul Stevens, their appointments merely cemented those seats for years to come rather than shifting the balance of the court.

“I’m not sure there are any important cases that have been decided since Sotomayor and Kagan joined the court that wouldn’t have turned out the same way had Souter and Stevens stayed on the court,” Professor Stone said. “So in that sense he hasn’t really changed anything. He’s kept the same balance in place.”

That is why the fight over Justice Scalia’s replacement is so momentous, magnified because two of the most significant initiatives of Mr. Obama’s presidency, on immigration and climate change, are awaiting the eventual judgment of a court now ideologically divided 4 to 4.

“This one is different,” Professor Stone said. “Obviously, the opportunity to replace Scalia is the first time he’s had a chance to affect the balance on the court. And historically, it’s potentially a very important appointment.”

PITTSBURGH — Federal intervention to curb police abuse did not begin after chants of “I can’t breathe,” viral cellphone videos or the Black Lives Matter movement.

It began 21 years ago here in Pittsburgh, where the police were laden with complaints that black residents were routinely singled out for false arrest and abuse. In a City Hall conference room, Chief Robert McNeilly faced a team of lawyers from the Justice Department — young, smartly dressed and newly empowered to rein in the department.

Sizing up the investigators, Chief McNeilly — dressed, as usual, in uniform — had one thought he could not get out of his mind: “There was nobody with any police experience.”

Still, the negotiators groped their way to the first federal “consent decree,” an 83-paragraph court-enforced agreement in 1997 that turned Pittsburgh into a widely emulated model department — for a time, at least.

Since then, there have been consent decrees in 19 other cities, from little Steubenville, Ohio, and Ferguson, Mo., to Los Angeles, Seattle and, as of Friday, Baltimore. Though widely regarded as a net positive, consent decrees, based on a 1994 statute that gave the federal attorney general the authority to combat systemic constitutional violations, have had varying degrees of success and have fallen in and out of favor, buffeted by political winds.

They were pioneered by President Bill Clinton’s Justice Department, largely rejected by President George W. Bush and vigorously revived by the Obama administration. Now, under President Trump, their future is in doubt. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has ordered a review of all federal interventions in law enforcement agencies and tried to delay Baltimore’s new decree.

To revisit the very first police consent decree is to examine a microcosm of the agreements’ potential, and their limitations. Many of the issues, including poor training, racial bias, union opposition and the high cost to carry out the decree, could have been plucked from last week’s headlines. Under its decree, Pittsburgh curtailed strip searches, began documenting traffic stops, gave officers “cultural diversity” training and tracked civilian complaints.

But from the outset, the police union balked, warning of “more drive-by shootings, more drugs” and a spike in crime. Four years after the consent decree ended in 2002, a new mayor, elected with union backing, took office and promptly dismissed Chief McNeilly. (The former chief says he retired voluntarily.) Over time, various aspects of the consent decree fell out of use. One of Chief McNeilly’s successors went to prison during a corruption scandal.

“The only realistic way to look at this is that it did not stick,” said David Harris, a University of Pittsburgh law professor who has written extensively about police reform and who studied the Pittsburgh experience.

In 1991, long before cellphone videos, there was Rodney King, an unarmed black man whose beating by four Los Angeles police officers was captured in grainy television footage. The episode led to widespread public outrage and congressional hearings on how to address police misconduct. A tiny provision, known as Section 14141, was inserted into a crime bill signed into law by Mr. Clinton in 1994.

The attorney general was authorized to investigate and sue to eliminate any “pattern or practice” of unconstitutional conduct by law enforcement officers. In the Justice Department, civil rights lawyers wrestled with how, and where, to exercise their new authority.

In Pittsburgh, lawyers had been collecting civilian complaints and learned that over 20 years, only one police officer had been disciplined — one who had an altercation with a black man who happened to be the deputy city solicitor.

In 1995, Pittsburgh had its own Rodney King — Jonny Gammage, a black businessman and cousin of a lineman for the Pittsburgh Steelers, who died of asphyxiation during a struggle with white police officers in the suburbs. Though his death did not involve the Pittsburgh police, it galvanized blacks and whites here to work together, said Tim Stevens, the president of the local chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. at the time.

In March 1996, Witold Walczak, a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union, learned about Section 14141 while preparing a class-action suit against the Pittsburgh police. He called the Justice Department and offered up his documents, which led to the federal investigation. The city was offered the chance to avoid a federal lawsuit if it agreed to make certain changes — a consent decree.

Though Section 14141 was envisioned as a way to force change, Chief McNeilly, who was new to the job and had been brought on for that very purpose, did not resist.

“When the D.O.J. came in, I pulled out my list and said, ‘These are the things I would do — ethics training, diversity training, communications training for every officer,’” Chief McNeilly said. Also on his list: computers, which the Justice Department ultimately required the city to buy.

“Pittsburgh could very well have been stuck in the ’60s with no computers if it hadn’t had a consent decree,” he said.

The Justice Department had a list of demands — for instance, that every passenger’s race and sex be recorded during traffic stops. Chief McNeilly protested, questioning the practicality and legality of such a requirement. In the end, only the driver’s information was tracked. The Justice Department also required an “early warning system,” opposed by the union, that would flag officers prone to using force.

“Bob McNeilly was like a test pilot in the Mercury flight program,” said Chuck Wexler, the president of the Police Executive Research Forum, a group of law enforcement professionals. “No one knew what an ‘early warning system’ was, how to build it or what to measure.”

By 2002, when the Pittsburgh decree expired, the department was considered a model of progressive policing.

By then, Mr. Bush was in the White House, having campaigned on a promise not to meddle with the local police. His attorney general, John Ashcroft, told law enforcement executives that “he did not want the federal government managing local police departments.” Years later, Mr. Trump and Mr. Sessions would strike the same chords.

“These lawsuits undermine the respect for police officers,” Mr. Sessions said at his confirmation hearing.

Mr. Bush preferred voluntary arrangements, known as memorandums of agreement. Cleveland, Miami and New Orleans were all investigated by the Bush-era Justice Department, but none were required to enter into consent decrees. All three were reinvestigated by the Obama administration.

President Barack Obama’s first civil rights division chief, Thomas Perez, came in determined to build on the work of the Clinton administration and consent decrees like that in Los Angeles, which had been hailed as a success in a Harvard study.

But Mr. Perez’s hard-charging style drew the ire of union leaders, including James O. Pasco Jr., the national president of the Fraternal Order of Police. In an interview, Mr. Pasco accused Mr. Perez of waging “a virtual jihad against rank-and-file police officers.”

Christy Lopez, a former Justice Department lawyer who worked on police abuse investigations during the Clinton and Obama administrations, said of Mr. Perez: “He represented a shift, and it was very hard for police officers. He was telling them things that no one really had the nerve to tell them before.”

Mr. Perez’s successor, Vanita Gupta, sought to mend fences, but by then, many union leaders say, the relationship had been poisoned.

The Fraternal Order of Police, which was founded in 1915 by two Pittsburgh police officers and now has a membership of well over 300,000 nationwide, has backed presidential candidates of both major political parties over the years but declined to choose between Mr. Obama and his Republican challenger, Mitt Romney, in 2012.

In 2016, the organization backed Mr. Trump.

Obama-era investigative reports were filled with vivid anecdotes and statistics: a 75-year-old homeless man shot with a stun gun for refusing to leave a bus stop; a gang-rape victim who was told that it was “probably just a drunken night and a mistake”; a city where blacks were more than twice as likely as whites to be accused of “milling” or “loitering.”

The consent decrees grew longer and more detailed, and included metrics and public reports. Instead of simply reviewing documents, Justice Department investigators included the views of officers, union leaders and community advocates in an attempt to make changes last.

“In the end, a city completes a consent decree, then the judge goes away, the monitor goes away,” said Samuel Walker, an expert on police accountability. “All cities are on their own, and then it’s dependent on the local community and local politics.”

In 2010, Jordan Miles, 18, an African-American honor student here, was badly beaten by police officers. Suddenly, Pittsburgh was thrown back into its past. Local news media outlets later reported that between 2010 and 2015, the city had used $4.9 million in tax money to settle more than 28 civil rights-related lawsuits against the police.

Despite the backsliding, Mr. Stevens, the civil rights leader, said the consent decree had had lasting “ripple effects” in Pittsburgh. The city’s recently retired police chief, who left after just two years, pushed hard to improve relations with black residents, and the new chief is also talking about police reform.

But Mr. Stevens is worried that what he is hearing from Washington will cause the ripples to subside.

So are officials in Chicago and Baltimore, who, in a sign of how some cities have come to embrace federal intervention, have objected to a retreat from court-ordered police overhauls. The Baltimore police commissioner, Kevin Davis, called the Justice Department’s effort to delay the agreement “a punch in the gut.”

Chief McNeilly and his wife, a former police commander, now consult with departments seeking to improve and see the federal government as a powerful ally.

“To suggest that there aren’t police departments out there that need massive help is naïve,” he said. “You’ve got some of the smartest, best, most experienced attorneys in D.C., and it’s all going to be for naught.”

TOKYO — When President Obama made a historic visit to Hiroshima in May, there was no question that he was the first sitting American president to do so. But as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe prepares to pay his respects at Pearl Harbor on Tuesday, Japanese officials are scrambling to identify what, exactly, is unprecedented about his reciprocal visit.

Mr. Abe announced this month that he would visit Pearl Harbor. Japan’s Foreign Ministry, in news briefings, indicated at the time that he would be the first sitting Japanese prime minister to visit Pearl Harbor, the site of the surprise attack on a United States naval base 75 years ago.

It turns out, though, that he might not be the first, or even the second. It now appears that he is the fourth.

A few days after Mr. Abe announced his visit, news reports emerged that a predecessor, Shigeru Yoshida, had stopped in Hawaii in 1951 on his way home from signing a treaty in San Francisco and had paid a quiet visit to Pearl Harbor.

And last week, a Japanese-language newspaper in Hawaii reported that it had found in its archives articles about two other visits there by sitting Japanese prime ministers in the 1950s, including Nobusuke Kishi, Mr. Abe’s grandfather.

In response to the reports, Japanese officials are now characterizing Mr. Abe’s visit as the first by a sitting prime minister with an American president to the memorial atop the remains of the U.S.S. Arizona, the American battleship on which the worst losses occurred. Mr. Abe will accompany Mr. Obama to the memorial, which was constructed in 1962.

After the existence of the prior visits was reported, Japan’s Foreign Ministry acknowledged that in 1956 Prime Minister Ichiro Hatoyama had visited the United States Pacific Command in Honolulu, and that Mr. Kishi had followed in 1957. Mr. Kishi was also reported to have visited the National Memorial Cemetery of the Pacific, a mountaintop shrine dedicated to the American dead in several wars.

Mr. Abe’s office said that “it was difficult to confirm as it was contained in records more than 60 years ago.”

It is possible that the current government did not realize that the prime minister’s predecessors had visited Pearl Harbor. Robert Dujarric, the director of the Institute of Contemporary Asian Studies at Temple University in Tokyo, said he was not familiar with either Mr. Hatoyama’s or Mr. Kishi’s visits. “They weren’t big time, official state visits,” he said.

At the time, the news media on both sides of the Pacific provided scant coverage. The New York Times did not cover any of the prime ministers’ visits to Pearl Harbor, and both The Associated Press and The Nikkei Shimbun of Japan described Mr. Kishi’s visit to Honolulu without mentioning Pearl Harbor.

In a memoir, Mr. Hatoyama recounted his trip to Honolulu and his stop at the United States Pacific Command.

“In front of the building, the Army brass band was ready and they fired a 19-gun salute and the band played the Japanese national anthem for me,” Mr. Hatoyama wrote. “It happened at the top of a hill overlooking Pearl Harbor, so I got a catch in my throat.”

Mr. Abe apparently did not know that his grandfather, Mr. Kishi, had been to Pearl Harbor. Mr. Abe has professed his desire to fulfill his grandfather’s thwarted effort to revise the pacifist clause in Japan’s Constitution.

Historians speculated that the prime ministers who visited Pearl Harbor in the 1950s would have kept a low profile because the wounds of the attack were still raw and the United States and Japan were establishing the terms of their postwar alliance.

What’s more, said Hironao Suzuki, a professor of political science at Shizuoka University, the “political conflict between the left and right was so fierce that there might have been concern that the public might not accept the visits.”

In postwar Japan, the left assailed the Japanese alliance with the United States, while the right defended Japan’s actions during World War II as a matter of self-defense.

The Americans also had strategic reasons to treat the early Japanese visits to Pearl Harbor with delicacy. “For the American public, also, we had to do this real pirouette from vilifying the inhuman, disgusting, vile Japanese to being our best friends in the Pacific,” said Jeff Kingston, the director of Asian studies at Temple University in Tokyo. And in the case of Mr. Kishi, who was accused of war crimes (although he was never indicted), the American government might have been reluctant to highlight his trip to Pearl Harbor.

“There was no possible gain to be made from making this public,” Mr. Kingston said. “And there was some political risk at making it known.”

In answering questions about why the Japanese government had not recognized the earlier visits, Yoshihide Suga, Mr. Abe’s chief cabinet secretary, told reporters on Monday that Mr. Abe would be “the first to express remorse” at the Pearl Harbor memorial.

Indeed, the politics of apology began to gain currency only in the 1980s, said Alexis Dudden, a professor at the University of Connecticut who specializes in modern Japanese history.

Both Mr. Hatoyama and Mr. Kishi would have stopped in Hawaii because they needed to make refueling stops on the way home from Washington. And when they visited the United States Pacific Command, Ms. Dudden said, “those were more likely visits of assurance that in fact now the Cold War was up and running and Japan was very much an ally.”

Mr. Abe’s visit, on the other hand, represents “a formulaic understanding of contrition that enables a nation to reinstate itself as sufficiently contrite in order to move on into the future,” she said.

For those on the left in Japan, as well as critics in China, South Korea and elsewhere, the prime minister’s visit to Pearl Harbor ignores Japanese aggression closer to home in Asia. “I can only hope that building on this visit, Abe will take the opportunity to go to Nanjing and Seoul,” Ms. Dudden said.

Other historians said that whether Mr. Abe was the first or fourth prime minister to visit Pearl Harbor was less significant than what he does when he is there.

“What we should watch is what Mr. Abe will say,” said Masayasu Hosaka, a historian who has written books about the wartime Emperor Hirohito and Prime Minister Hideki Tojo. “That’s more important. How his speech will be evaluated historically and internationally is more interesting.”