WASHINGTON —  President Obama refused to bash China when he ran for the White House in 2008, which set him apart from other candidates. None of Mr. Obama’s would-be successors are showing similar restraint. Some, like Donald J. Trump, are bashing Beijing with gleeful abandon.

Those distinctions will probably be on the mind of China’s president, Xi Jinping, when he sits down with Mr. Obama here on Thursday for a one-on-one meeting during a nuclear security summit meeting that falls in the middle of America’s no-holds-barred political season.

The surge in anti-China sentiment on the campaign trail will cast a shadow over the Obama-Xi meeting, and it could have ominous consequences for China’s relationship with the United States after Mr. Obama leaves office. Experts on China said the Chinese were taking the vitriol more seriously than in previous elections, viewing it as a gauge of American intentions.

“Obama is the best they’ve got, or are going to get,” said Minxin Pei, professor of government at Claremont McKenna College. “The real surprise is that he’s still holding the line on engagement at a time when the policy is increasingly hard to defend at home.”

While tarring China is a predictable election-year tactic, and recognized as such by Chinese officials, experts said there were deeper corrosive forces at play this year, from distrust of China’s trade practices and cyberespionage to a potential military clash in the South China Sea.

“The Chinese are more worried,” Mr. Pei said, “because the anti-China rhetoric is happening not just in a political context but in the context of a deteriorating overall relationship in the last two years.”

Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner, has characterized Chinese leaders as something close to evil geniuses who manipulate their currency and swindle Americans out of their money through bad trade deals. He has threatened to impose a 45 percent tax on Chinese imports, a step that experts said would ignite a full-blown trade war.

“The greatest debt in the history of the world is what China has done to us,” Mr. Trump said at a rally in Las Vegas in January. “They’ve taken our jobs; they’ve taken our money; they’ve taken everything. They’ve rebuilt China with our money.”

Hillary Clinton, the Democratic front-runner, is more measured. But she has relentlessly criticized China for its cyberattacks, and last September she said on Twitter that Mr. Xi was “shameless” for playing host at a United Nations meeting on women’s rights, at a time when the Chinese government had put several prominent female activists in jail.

Chinese state news media reacted furiously to Mrs. Clinton’s barb, accusing her of being a “rabble-rouser,” guilty of “ignominious shenanigans.” The Global Times, a Chinese state newspaper, said she was imitating Mr. Trump’s anti-China posture in an effort to pander for votes.

The problem for Chinese leaders is that Mrs. Clinton staked out tough positions on China even before she began her latest presidential campaign. When she was secretary of state, one of her major diplomatic initiatives was injecting the United States into the dispute between China and its neighbors over disputed reefs and shoals in the South China Sea. That issue is expected to figure prominently in Mr. Obama’s talks with Mr. Xi.

For Mr. Obama, it is ironic that he has become a friendly face for Mr. Xi. Although he invited the Chinese leader to an intimate summit meeting in Southern California in June 2013, the two got off to a bumpy start, exchanging sharp words over allegations of China’s cyber-hacking and theft of American corporate secrets.

“For some time, the Chinese view was to look past Obama to the next president,” said Cheng Li, an expert on Chinese politics at the Brookings Institution. “But then they decided to stop doing that, which was wise.”

In 2014, the two leaders agreed on ambitious targets for reductions in carbon emissions. That put the relationship on firmer footing, and Mr. Obama invited Mr. Xi for a state dinner, brushing aside calls from Republican candidates to cancel the meeting to protest China’s cyberespionage and currency manipulation.

On Thursday’s visit, China experts said, Mr. Xi is likely to deliver a reassuring message to Mr. Obama. He will probably repeat his statement from last fall that China does not intend to militarize the South China Sea. The meeting, they said, may be as much about sending a signal to the next president as it is about preserving his ties with the current one.

“Xi’s visit is meant to show that China is not an enemy of the U.S.,” Mr. Li said. “But the message also is, ‘If you don’t cooperate with us, that will be your problem, not ours.’ ”

Harsh words during a presidential campaign can have lingering effects. In 1992, three years after the Tiananmen Square massacre, Bill Clinton referred to China’s leaders as the “butchers of Beijing.” During the 2000 campaign, George W. Bush said the United States should treat China as a “strategic competitor” rather than as a “strategic partner.” Just months into his first term, in April 2001, he found himself dealing with suspicious Chinese officials after a Navy surveillance plane had a midair collision with a Chinese fighter jet over Hainan Island.

When Mr. Obama ran for president, his two advisers on China, James Steinberg and Jeffrey A. Bader, advised him to avoid anti-China comments. Mrs. Clinton, his Democratic opponent, called on Mr. Bush to boycott the opening ceremony of the 2008 Beijing Olympics to protest China’s failure to force Sudan to stop the killing in Darfur.

But Mr. Obama stopped short of that. “I’m hesitant to make the Olympics a site of political protest,” he said at the time, “because I think it’s partly about bringing the world together.”

It is not clear, in hindsight, whether Mr. Obama’s gingerly approach paid off with the Chinese. During his first visit to China as president, the Chinese stage-managed his public appearances, allowed no questions after his joint news conference with Hu Jintao, then the president, and refused to broadcast his town-hall-style meeting in Shanghai on state television.

In his second year, Mr. Obama stiffened his approach to Beijing, and by the time he ran for re-election in 2012, he was announcing a lawsuit against China at the World Trade Organization for unfairly subsidizing its auto and auto-parts industries.

“These are subsidies that directly harm working men and women on the assembly lines in Ohio and Michigan and across the Midwest,” Mr. Obama said during a campaign rally, adding, “We will not let it stand.”