Our coverage of the Trump transition continues. Read Friday’s briefing »

President-elect Donald J. Trump’s busy day in Washington has come to an end, with smiles all around and the Dow Jones industrial average at a record high, but with protests continuing in the city’s streets. Mr. Trump had intended to stay the night in Washington, but changed his mind and returned Thursday to Trump Tower in Manhattan.

Check back with us as we monitor every step of the Trump transition.

Steve Bannon, the conservative provocateur and Mr. Trump’s campaign chief, is now a leading candidate to become White House chief of staff, but he’d have to beat out another campaign veteran in the running, Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.

Mr. Bannon, the executive chairman of the conservative website Breitbart News, who took a leave to help manage the final weeks of Mr. Trump’s campaign, is well liked among Mr. Trump’s circle of overlapping advisers, who see him as a favorable influence on the president-elect.

But Mr. Priebus is said to be viewed favorably by two people especially close to Mr. Trump: his daughter Ivanka and son-in-law, Jared Kushner. Mr. Priebus is personally close to both Speaker Paul D. Ryan and Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, the vice president-elect, and he could serve as a helpful bridge to crucial elements of the Republican Party.

Corey Lewandowski, Mr. Trump’s first campaign manager, has also been mentioned for chief of staff, despite having been fired by the campaign in June. But Mr. Trump’s children, who feuded publicly with him during the campaign, may resist.

Two other names being discussed: Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager, and David Bossie, a veteran conservative operative who became Mr. Trump’s deputy campaign manager.

Mr. Trump, a man who once questioned the birthplace of the president, and Mr. Obama, who scorched Mr. Trump as unfit for the Oval Office, met the news media in that esteemed room, and at least for public consumption, let bygones and bygones.

Mr. Trump, who often labeled Mr. Obama the worst president in history during the campaign, this time called him a “very good man.”

For a full account, read here. 

After the White House, it was on to Capitol Hill to meet with Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and the speaker of the House, Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin. Mr. Ryan only reluctantly endorsed Mr. Trump, called his attack on a judge of Mexican heritage the “textbook definition” of racism, and then stopped campaigning for him after a video emerged of the candidate bragging about sexual assault.

On Thursday, it was all smiles.

“Donald Trump had one of the most impressive victories we have ever seen, and we’re going to turn that victory into progress for the American people,” Mr. Ryan said, “and we are now talking about how we are going to hit the ground running to get this country turned around and make America great again.”

Mr. Trump added: “We had a very detailed meeting, and we’re going to lower taxes, as you know, health care, we’re going to make it affordable. We are going to do a real job on health care.”

Mr. Ryan then showed off the view from his balcony, pointing out the Old Post Office on Pennsylvania Avenue, which Mr. Trump converted into a luxury hotel.

Mr. Trump planned to spend Thursday night in Washington, aides announced. No word on whether he’ll be in the new hotel.

Michelle Obama welcomed Melania Trump to tea and a tour of the White House residence on Thursday, yet another extraordinary moment as the first lady, who bitterly denounced Mr. Trump and his treatment of women during the presidential campaign, welcomed his wife to her soon-to-be new home.

While Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump held their own 90-minute meeting in the Oval Office, the two women stepped out on the Truman Balcony, with sweeping views of the grounds and the Washington Monument, strolled through the State Floor with the resident curator, and even talked about raising children at the White House, said Josh Earnest, the press secretary.

When they were finished, Mrs. Obama and Mrs. Trump went to the Oval Office to meet their husbands before the Trumps departed for Capitol Hill, Mr. Earnest said.

Tens of thousands of Americans are rushing to sign up for health insurance under the Affordable Care Act after Mr. Trump’s victory as revitalized Republicans vow to repeal the law.

Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the secretary of health and human services, reported that more than 100,000 people selected health plans on Wednesday through HealthCare.gov. It was, she said on Twitter Thursday, the “best day yet” in the current open-enrollment period, which began Nov. 1 and ends Jan. 31.

Even though premiums on the Affordable Care Act exchanges have increased sharply in many parts of the country, federal officials say most consumers can still find coverage for less than $100 a month, after subsidies help defray the cost.

Mr. Trump has said he will “completely repeal Obamacare,” but has not said in detail how he would replace it. Instead of the subsidies now available to most people buying insurance through the online marketplace, Mr. Trump wants to allow people to take tax deductions equal to their premiums.

“We’ll figure it out on election night.”

That’s what Mr. Trump told his advisers after they pressed him this year to name people to a transition team in-waiting that was supposed to give his campaign the appearance of being serious about winning.

So if Mr. Trump’s fledgling transition looks a little seat of the pants, well, blame superstition.

Mr. Trump said he did not like the idea of planning ahead because he thought it might jinx him. “It’s bad luck,” he told advisers, according to one senior aide who spoke to Mr. Trump about the matter.

They love Bernie Sanders, they adore Elizabeth Warren, but as Democrats regroup from Mrs. Clinton’s defeat, the progressive wing of the party is looking to another candidate to lead the Democratic National Committee: Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota.

Donna Brazile replaced Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz as the committee’s interim leader over the summer after it emerged that the committee was favoring Mrs. Clinton over Mr. Sanders in the Democratic primary contest. Hacked emails released by WikiLeaks also showed that Ms. Brazile had been trying to help Mrs. Clinton.

The Progressive Change Campaign Committee said on Thursday that Democrats would continue losing elections unless they aggressively take on corporate power and pointed to Mr. Ellison, who is one of two Muslims in the House and is co-chairman of the Congressional Progressive Caucus.

“The Democratic establishment had their chance with this election,” said Stephanie Taylor, a co-founder of the Progressive Change Campaign Committee. “It’s time for new leadership of the Democratic Party — younger, more diverse, and more ideological — that is hungry to do things differently, like leading a movement instead of dragging people to the polls.”

Kris Kobach, the Kansas secretary of state and an ardent opponent of immigration, has been added to Mr. Trump’s transition team, according to local news reports.

Mr. Kobach, who provided guidance on immigration policy to Mr. Trump during the campaign, will help the president-elect in the weeks before he takes office, according to The Wichita Eagle.

He told the paper he did not expect to get an offer to serve in the Trump administration, but just having him in a formal role in the new Washington could send shudders through the nation’s immigrants. Mr. Kobach has been one of the loudest anti-immigration voices in the Republican Party for years. He added Mr. Trump’s call for a border wall along the southern tier into the party’s platform over the summer.

Mr. Trump and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain spoke by telephone on Thursday, affirming the “special relationship” between the two countries and agreeing to work closely together, according to a readout of the call provided by the British Embassy.

It was a meeting of the “Brexits”: the prime minister ushered into power after Britons voted to exit the European Union and a president-elect who has proudly proclaimed himself “Mr. Brexit” — as big a political shock as the British vote.

“The prime minister and President-elect Trump agreed that the U.S.-U.K. relationship was very important and very special, and that building on this would be a priority for them both,” said Laura Palts, an embassy spokeswoman. “President-elect Trump set out his close and personal connections with, and warmth for, the U.K.”

Mr. Trump encouraged Brexit and has been supportive of Mrs. May. This year he clashed with David Cameron, Britain’s former prime minister, and Sadiq Khan, the mayor of London, after they criticized his proposal to bar Muslims from entering the United States.

But on Thursday Mr. Trump told Mrs. May that Britain was a “very, very special place for me and for our country” and invited her to pay him a visit as soon as possible.

Republican congressional leaders have confirmed what might seem obvious with Mr. Trump’s triumph: Mr. Obama’s far-reaching trade agreement with 11 Pacific Rim nations is dead.

The Senate majority leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said flat-out “No” when reporters asked on Wednesday if the pending Trans-Pacific Partnership — the largest regional trade deal in history — would be considered in the lame duck Congress that convenes next week.

“I think the president-elect made it pretty clear he was not in favor of the current agreement,” Mr. McConnell said. Mr. Trump has the authority “to negotiate better deals, as I think he would put it,” Mr. McConnell added, but that prospect is unlikely given the difficulty of renegotiating a pact at least seven years in the making among a dozen countries.

One of the agreement’s strongest and best-placed Republican advocates, Representative Kevin Brady of Texas, the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, echoed the Senate leader.

“This important agreement is not ready to be considered during the lame duck and will remain on hold until President Trump decides the path forward,” he said.

The office of Representative Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday that Mr. Pence had reached out on a phone call, and she congratulated him on his win. They agreed to meet in the coming weeks to talk more. Ms. Pelosi, the Democratic leader from California, is acquainted with Mr. Pence from his days in the House, where he was something of a rebel before joining the Republican leadership.

Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former mayor of New York, expressed interest on Thursday morning in being attorney general, telling CNN, “I certainly have the energy, and there’s probably nobody who knows the Justice Department better than me.”

The next question: Would he actually make good on Mr. Trump’s promise to put Hillary Clinton in jail?

Ms. Conway, the Trump campaign manager, left the door open on Wednesday. So did Mr. Giuliani on Fox News when he said Mr. Obama should not pardon Mrs. Clinton for allegedly mishandling classified information on a private server as secretary of state.

“I don’t like to see America become a country in which we prosecute people, you know, about politics,” he said. “On the other hand, there are deep and disturbing issues there in which if you don’t investigate them — ”

The Fox News hosts finished the sentence: “They’re going to continue.”

Legal analysts say that a Trump attorney general would wield the power to open a new investigation, even with a special prosecutor. But he could not guarantee the outcome.

Of course, maybe Mr. Giuliani won’t be in the Trump administration. He told The Times’s Matt Apuzzo on Wednesday that he was “not interested in returning to government.” Instead, he and his friend Michael B. Mukasey, the former attorney general, would advise Mr. Trump on potential nominees. “Between us, we can locate a lot of really good people.”

ALBUQUERQUE — When Deb Haaland was a child, she would rise early on this state’s sun-beaten tribal land, sling a water jar around her waist and climb the mesa overlooking her pueblo.

It was as high as she ever thought she would go.

Now, she is among a historic number of Native American women running for elective office. None has ever served in Congress, but that could change this year if Ms. Haaland wins.

In all, there are at least four indigenous women running for Congress, three more are bidding for governors’ offices and another 31 are campaigning for seats in state legislatures — from both sides of the aisle.

The numbers far outstrip past election cycles, longtime observers of native politics say, and they are only partly driven by the liberal energy and #MeToo declarations that have flourished since President Trump’s election.

More broadly, they are part of a decades-long shift in which native communities, long marginalized by United States voting laws and skeptical of a government that stripped them of land and traditions, are moving into mainstream politics.

Montana has more than a dozen Native Americans running for the state House this year. Utah tribes are pushing the governor to make a seat for them in his cabinet. Five native people serve in the Minnesota Legislature, and four of them are women.

“American Indians have been invisible for so long, in so many sectors in society,” said Denise Juneau, who was among the first native women in the country to be elected to a statewide executive position when she became the Montana schools superintendent in 2009. In that role, she developed an Indian history curriculum that is being replicated across the American West. “To be able to make inroads in the political world,” she said, “is huge.”

Many of these candidates are running on a liberal platform fueled by opposition to the Trump administration, as Ms. Haaland is. But others are Republicans who don’t fit that mold at all.

One is Andria Tupola, a Native Hawaiian lawmaker running for governor of Hawaii on a promise of tax cuts and small government. Another is Sharon Clahchischilliage, who was a co-chairwoman of Mr. Trump’s Native American coalition in 2016 and is running for re-election to the New Mexico House on a platform she calls “fighting the environmentalists.”

Ms. Clahchischilliage is a fierce advocate for a coal-fired power plant that employs many Navajo people. She is hoping Mr. Trump will halt the threatened closing of the plant. Keeping it open, she said, could save 1,600 jobs.

“What I love about Trump is that he understands,” she said. “He gets it. He is asking: What regulations need to change?”

Here in Albuquerque, Ms. Haaland, a Democrat, recently won 35 percent of the vote in a six-candidate field at the state party convention. She is a “strong contender” to win the June primary, said Joe Monahan, a longtime New Mexico political blogger. (Her district covers most of Albuquerque and has elected Democrats for a decade).

“We’re seeing a new generation of Native Americans who have seen more opportunity in education starting to knock down the doors in politics,” Mr. Monahan said. “And it’s not a loud movement, but it’s a steady movement.”

Ms. Haaland is a citizen of the Laguna Pueblo, a sovereign nation west of Albuquerque that is one the country’s 573 federally recognized tribes. A child of military veterans, she attended 13 public schools before graduating from high school, then started a salsa company and worked as a cake decorator before putting herself through college and law school on a mix of food stamps and student loans.

She entered politics in 2008 as a volunteer for Barack Obama, then spent years crisscrossing the state to register native voters in some of the country’s most remote corners. In 2015, she became the head of the state Democratic Party and helped to flip the New Mexico House of Representatives back to Democratic control.

On the campaign trail, she frequently cites her heritage, and she makes the argument that many of the issues affecting native communities — the ubiquity of low-wage jobs, violence against women — afflict other groups as well.

“I know what it’s like to get my health care from the Indian Health Service, and hold a sick child in the waiting room for three hours until you have a chance to see a doctor,” she said in an interview at her headquarters, a sparsely furnished office downtown splashed with political signs saying “Healthcare Not Warfare” and “¡Obámanos Nuevo México!”

Her priority in Congress, she said, would be to turn New Mexico into a solar energy powerhouse, a message with appeal in an impoverished state that has struggled to diversify an economy dependent on oil and gas.

She faces a field crowded with qualified candidates, including Antoinette Sedillo Lopez, a former law school dean who has spent a career building social justice programs.

The main criticism of Ms. Haaland is that she is concealing a lack of policy depth by focusing on the historic nature of her candidacy. “That as a single theme could leave her vulnerable,” Mr. Monahan said.

The United States did not grant native people full citizenship and the right to vote in federal elections until 1924, and for years they were mostly absent from federal government, according to Mark Trahant, a professor at the University of North Dakota who writes extensively about Native Americans in politics.

That began to change in the late 1950s, when Washington instituted a policy known as termination, abolishing tribal governments and taking Indian land.

Facing existential threats, native leaders began to exhort fellow Indians to vote and run for office. Men began to make elective inroads, and in recent years women have followed. In 2001, the coalition of tribes known as the National Congress of American Indians began a voting project that continues today.

To be sure, Native Americans are just 2 percent of the population, and low voter turnout persists in many communities.

But that is changing in some corners, and American Indians have the potential to sway elections in states like Montana, where they make up 7 percent of the voting-age population; New Mexico, where they are more than 10 percent; and Alaska, where they are more than 17 percent.

Today there are two native men in the United States House of Representatives, both Republicans from Oklahoma. (Elizabeth Warren, the senator from Massachusetts, has discussed having native heritage but is not enrolled in a tribe.)

Among the native women seeking office this year is Peggy Flanagan, a former director of a nonprofit organization who is running for lieutenant governor of Minnesota.

In an interview, Ms. Flanagan said that if she wins, she will oppose a proposed pipeline across historic Ojibwe land; send money meant to help native people to tribes rather than county governments; and bring attention to the country’s many missing and murdered native women.

But Ms. Juneau, the Montana school superintendent, warned that the hardest part of winning an election as an Indian woman is proving that you can represent the entire state, not just its tribes.

“It’s not like, as a person of color or as an American Indian woman, you can walk into a room and say: ‘I’m qualified,’ and everybody looks at you like that,” she said. “You have to prove it. And we will — eventually.”