WASHINGTON — Supreme Court justices say they do not act politically when they decide cases. But they freely admit to taking account of politics in deciding when to retire. Most justices, for instance, try to step down under politically like-minded presidents.

“That’s not 100 percent true,” Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist said in 1999, six years before he died, “but it certainly is true in more cases than not.”

Such political calculations are perfectly proper, he said, as “deciding when to step down from the court is not a judicial act.”

For the second year in a row, rumors that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy may retire from the Supreme Court are sweeping Washington. He is 81, and he is doubtless weighing many factors in deciding whether to stay. Among them, experts in judicial behavior said, are the tug of party loyalty, the preservation of his judicial legacy and how close his retirement would be to a presidential election.

Justice Kennedy has long held the decisive vote in many of the Supreme Court’s most contested and consequential cases, and his retirement would give President Trump the opportunity to move the court sharply to the right. If Justice Kennedy steps down, the confirmation fight over his successor will be titanic.

Justices often try to retire when the president is of the same party as the one who appointed them. Justice Kennedy was appointed by President Ronald Reagan, a Republican. President Trump may be an unconventional Republican, but he is a Republican.

Justices also try to retire early in a president’s term, generally in the first two years, according to a 2010 study by Ross M. Stolzenberg, a demographer at the University of Chicago, and James T. Lindgren, a law professor at Northwestern. The study considered justices who served between 1789 and 2006.

“If the incumbent president is of the same party as the president who nominated the justice to the court, and if the incumbent president is in the first two years of a four-year presidential term,” the study found, “then the justice has odds of resignation that are about 2.6 times higher than when these two conditions are not met.”

Justices also take account of who controls the Senate and its internal rules.

“If I resign any time this year,” Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said in the fall of 2014, less than two years into President Obama’s second term, “he could not successfully appoint anyone I would like to see in the court.”

“So anybody who thinks that if I step down, Obama could appoint someone like me, they’re misguided,” she said.

Artemus Ward, the author of “Deciding to Leave: The Politics of Retirement From the United States Supreme Court,” said Justice Kennedy found himself at a crucial crossroads. If he wants to resign under a Republican president in the first half of a presidential term, he must act.

“It’s now or never,” said Mr. Ward, a political scientist at Northern Illinois University. “It’s either this year or you wait until the next election.”

Party loyalty is likely to overcome more subtle concerns about judicial legacy, Mr. Ward said. Justice Kennedy holds the crucial vote in many closely divided cases, and he has been drifting to the left. He has cast conservative votes in cases on campaign finance and gun rights but has lately voted with the court’s liberal wing on gay rights, abortion and affirmative action.

But Mr. Ward said Justice Kennedy is likely to emulate Justice Byron R. White, who drifted to the right after his appointment by President John F. Kennedy, a Democrat. Even so, Justice White said, it was fitting to retire under a Democratic president because he had been appointed by one. He stepped down not long after President Bill Clinton was elected and was replaced by Justice Ginsburg, whose voting record has been considerably more liberal.

A new study on departures from the Supreme Court attempted to refine the conventional factors by considering political science data on justices’ voting patterns, involuntary departures and missed opportunities. It concluded that justices have not been particularly successful at ensuring that they would be replaced by like-minded successors.

Justice Kennedy is in a ticklish spot, said the study’s author, Christine Kexel Chabot, who teaches at Loyola University Chicago School of Law. He is, she wrote, a moderate conservative, and there is no reason to think a president of either party would replace him with someone similar.

In all likelihood, she wrote, Mr. Trump would appoint a committed conservative like his first nominee, Justice Neil M. Gorsuch. In the few divided cases in which Justices Kennedy and Gorsuch participated in the court’s last term, they agreed just 38 percent of the time. By contrast, Justice Gorsuch agreed with Justice Clarence Thomas, the court’s most conservative member, 100 percent of the time.

Ms. Chabot also explored justices’ decisions to forgo opportunities to retire under like-minded presidents.

Of the 16 justices since 1954 who reached the age 65 and had served on the court for at least 18 years, Ms. Chabot found, nine passed up politically opportune retirements, risking having to leave the court for health reasons in less attractive circumstances.

Two of them — Justices White and John Paul Stevens — retired later on. Justice Elena Kagan replaced Justice Stevens, and her voting record resembles his.

Another two, Justices Ginsburg and Stephen G. Breyer, could have retired under President Obama but continue to serve.

Staying on is understandable, Ms. Chabot wrote. “Retirement from the court is very costly for a justice,” she wrote, “as he or she must permanently give up what is often an immensely personally rewarding position as well as the most powerful judicial office in the United States.”

Try as they might, Mr. Ward said, justices have had only mixed success in deciding when to step down.

“They can’t completely time their retirements perfectly because they’re just like us,” he said. “They don’t know when they’re going to get sick, and they don’t know when they’re going to die, and they don’t know who is going to win the next election.”

As for Justice Kennedy, Ms. Chabot noted in an interview that he has hired law clerks for the term that starts in October. “I wouldn’t be surprised if he remains on the bench,” she said.

MOSCOW — At first, new recruits to the Internet Research Agency, the notorious Russian troll factory, were thrilled by the better-than-average salaries they earned simply for posting on the internet. But one says he eventually realized that the work hid a darker reality: both they and their audience were meant to turn into zombies.

“They were just giving me money for writing,” said the former troll, a St. Petersburg resident who wanted to get into marketing or journalism but was drawn by the hard-to-match $1,400 weekly paycheck. “I was much younger and did not think about the moral side. I simply wrote because I loved writing. I was not trying to change the world.”

On Friday, the United States Department of Justice accused the Internet Research Agency and its senior employees of working illegally to meddle in the 2016 American presidential election, indicting 13 Russians and the companies linked to it.

In recent interviews conducted before the indictments, two former trolls spoke about their experiences. Neither man wanted his full name used, citing the threats and intimidation others have been subjected to for speaking out.

Both left the agency for different reasons — one troubled by the substance of the work, the other struggling with the breakneck pace to create fake content.

Aleksei, the troll from St. Petersburg, said he was among the first 25 employees hired. To get the job, he said, he had to write an essay on the “Dulles Doctrine,” a Soviet-era conspiracy theory that may seem obscure to Westerners but is well known to Russians.

That was a significant clue about what was to come. The Dulles Doctrine — born in a 1971 novel, and gaining new life after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991 — was a supposed plot by Allen Dulles, the C.I.A. director from 1953 to 1961, to destroy the Soviet Union by corrupting its moral values and cultural heritage.

That, as the West has learned in the last couple of years, is precisely what the Kremlin and the troll factory set out to do to the United States, undermining faith in its electoral system by encouraging or even establishing groups that would sow domestic discord. Troll factory tactics included applauding Donald Trump’s candidacy while trying to undermine Hillary Clinton’s.

As the factory got going, Aleksei said, the first task assigned to all new employees was to create three identities on Live Journal, a popular blogging platform. One was to be of very high quality in writing and content, the other two “marginal.”

They worked in 12-hour shifts, either day or night, and the assigned topics popped up in their email: President Vladimir V. Putin, or President Barack Obama, or often the two together; Ukraine; the heroism of Russia’s Defense Ministry; the war in Syria; Russian opposition figures; the American role in spreading the Ebola virus.

The key words and subject line were always assigned. At the time, the removal of chemical weapons from Syria negotiated under Russian auspices was a favorite topic. Aleksei recalled writing seven or eight blog posts about it.

“You had to write that 30 percent of the weapons had been removed, and the next day we would say that 32 percent had been taken out,” he said, adding that he had no idea if any had been removed.

Aleksei wrote for the Russian-speaking audience. The English-speaking trolls were kept apart, he said, but from their loud conversations in the communal smoking room, it seemed like they were engaged in similar work.

The English speakers discussed the best time to post commentary to attract an American audience, he remembered, and bragged about creating thousands of fake social media accounts.

Aleksei was interviewed before the indictments were handed up and he cut off contact within days of the interview. He had said that he did not know much about the company management and that he had never seen Yevgeny V. Prigozhin, the man the United States accused of creating the agency and nicknamed “Putin’s cook” because he got his start in the restaurant and catering business.

The former troll did identify Dzheykhun N. O. Aslanov — called “Jay” around the firm — as the head of the trolls running the coverage of the American elections, an assertion that Mr. Aslanov has denied.

Aleksei said that two departments generated articles and tweets in English. On the Russian side of things, he said, the main thread running through the blog posts and the commentary was that “life was good in Russia under Putin and it was bad in the U.S. under Obama.”

On domestic issues, the opposition leader Aleksei A. Navalny was a favorite target. The Russian annexation of Crimea was always presented as an historical achievement for Mr. Putin that opened new horizons for Russia.

“If things were not great before, now we would start living really well,” was the general theme, he said.

Once a blog post was created, the troll exclaimed, “Then the magic began!”

The computers were designed to forward the post to the agency’s countless fake accounts, opening and closing the post to create huge numbers of fake page views.

After the initial excitement of his new job wore off, Aleksei began to realize that much of the commentary was garbage, with the same themes repeated endlessly. “It was like turning people into zombies by repeating: ‘Everything is good, everything is good. Putin is good, Putin is good,’” he said.

In his nearly two years the staff around him had mushroomed from a few dozen to over 1,000, but by the middle of 2015 he had decided to leave.

The work began to trouble him. “If I went first because they paid a lot of money for nothing, when I left I started to understand what I was doing and it was bad,” he said

Not everyone had the same reaction, he noted. Some seemed brainwashed by the material. “They became cheerleaders for the regime,” he said.

Sergei, 30, now a furniture salesman, was one of those.

With only a high school education, he was thrilled to discover that he could earn good money — he said he was actually handed cash in an envelope for part of his weekly salary — without much effort.

“I was 25 years old and knew nothing about politics,” said Sergei, who arranged for a rendezvous in a St. Petersburg food court so that he could confirm from afar that the meeting was with a foreign journalist.

Working in a room with about 40 other people, he received a stream of blog posts by other agency writers. His job was to add comments and to share the posts on other social media platforms. He said everyone had a quota of at least 80 comments and 20 shares a day.

“The main idea was to work on people’s thinking, to raise patriotism among the Russian people and to portray the U.S. negatively,” Sergei said.

The comments were supposed to be original, something he struggled with, particularly as the articles all began to sound identical even if written by different authors. He had a hard time fulfilling his quota, he said. Hired in October 2013, he left in March 2014, he said.

The job changed him.

“Of course I became more patriotic,” he said. He realized, he said, just how much Russia had to struggle against foreign powers, mostly the United States, who sought to control its natural resources.

From the blog posts, Sergei said he learned that just a few families like the Rockefellers, the Morgans and the Rothschilds controlled much of the wealth in the United States, and that their banks charged rapacious interest rates.

“I began to be more aware of the reasons for the world’s problems,” he said. “I now believe that the world evil is the top elite who control the Federal Reserve system in the United States.”

Reached by telephone after the indictments were announced, Sergei said he had not heard about them.

Aleksei said that ultimately, the managers demanded that the trolls do more and more by rote, even as the audience seemed to grow more jaded and paid less attention to what they wrote.

“If there was some creativity at the beginning,” he said, “by the end that creative part was gone and we were all like robots.”

HOUSTON — Texas Democrats surged to the polls on Tuesday in the first primary of 2018, demonstrating a wave of Trump-inspired energy, but also showcasing party divisions that have emerged at the outset of an otherwise promising midterm campaign.

Nearly 886,000 Texans cast ballots early in the state’s 15 most populous counties, the highest early-vote turnout in a nonpresidential election year in state history. And more Democrats statewide voted early this year than even in 2016, the year that Donald J. Trump, a Republican, was elected to the White House.

Yet even as Democrats in the state’s biggest cities came out in large numbers, Republicans still cast more ballots over all thanks to their rural strength.

The most heavily anticipated contests were in three racially diverse House districts that Hillary Clinton, the Democratic presidential candidate, won in 2016, but where incumbent Republican lawmakers are seeking re-election.

And none was more closely watched than the Democratic primary race in Houston to take on Representative John Culberson.

The progressive Laura Moser made the May 22 runoff despite a late attempt by the House Democratic campaign arm to derail her candidacy. Ms. Moser, an author and an organizer, trailed Lizzie Pannill Fletcher, a lawyer, but Ms. Fletcher failed to garner 50 percent of the vote, so they will face off again in a race that will be something of a proxy battle between the moderate and more liberal wings of the Democratic Party.

Fearing that Ms. Moser is too liberal to defeat Mr. Culberson in an affluent and historically Republican district, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee took the rare step last month of publicly attacking her as “a Washington insider who begrudgingly moved to Houston to run for Congress.”

However, the broadside may have only lifted Ms. Moser — who grew up in Houston but lived in Washington while her husband worked in Democratic politics there — in a primary that featured seven candidates capturing votes.

In an even more Democratic-leaning seat, Gina Ortiz Jones, a lesbian and Iraq war veteran who would be the first openly gay member of Congress from Texas, was the top vote-getter in a district that stretches south from San Antonio to the Rio Grande and west to El Paso. The seat is held by Representative Will Hurd, a Republican who has narrowly won twice, but Democrats argue that Mr. Hurd will have a more difficult time surviving the backlash to Mr. Trump.

“The excitement — you can feel it,” said Ms. Jones, a former Air Force officer who moved to San Antonio after serving in President Barack Obama’s administration. “Folks are hungry for a win in this district.”

Ms. Jones is part of a wave of Democratic women, African-American and Hispanic people, gays, lesbians and even journalists who are running for office for the first time in Texas, in large part in reaction to the Trump administration.

She will face either Judy Canales, who served in Mr. Obama’s Agriculture Department, or Rick Treviño, a high school teacher, in the May runoff.

And in a Dallas-area district, Representative Pete Sessions, a veteran Republican, is facing an energized left. Colin Allred, a former Obama Housing and Urban Development Department official and an N.F.L. veteran, advanced to the runoff and will compete against either Lillian Salerno, another official in Mr. Obama’s Agriculture Department, or a former television reporter, Brett Shipp, for the nomination.

In statewide races, George P. Bush, the state land commissioner and a son of former Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, averted a runoff after a somewhat difficult primary campaign against Jerry Patterson, who previously held the job and accused Mr. Bush of mismanaging the General Land Office so badly that it brought him out of retirement.

Mr. Bush, one of the few members of his family to back Mr. Trump, was scared enough about the challenge that he produced fliers noting that he was “standing beside our president.” And he offered Mr. Trump a “MAGA” post last week on Twitter — invoking the president’s campaign slogan, “Make America Great Again” — after Mr. Trump offered his support via tweet and noted that Mr. Bush had supported him “when it wasn’t the politically correct thing to do.”

Senator Ted Cruz faced minimal opposition in the Republican primary, but his Democratic opponent, Representative Beto O’Rourke, won the nomination while losing a substantial number of votes to two little-known opponents, demonstrating that he is not well known yet among many of the state’s voters.

Gov. Greg Abbott, a Republican with a $43 million war chest, was renominated and will face either Lupe Valdez, the former Dallas County sheriff, or Andrew White, the son of former Gov. Mark White, in the general election.

Yet even while Mr. Abbott is an overwhelming favorite for re-election, he proved that he did not have an iron grip on his party: Two of the three Republican state representatives he opposed as part of an unusual intervention against incumbents still managed to win.