WASHINGTON — After weeks of uncertainty atop the Department of Veterans Affairs, President Trump dismissed its secretary, David J. Shulkin, on Wednesday and announced he would replace him with the White House physician, Dr. Ronny L. Jackson, a rear admiral in the Navy.

If confirmed, Dr. Jackson, a career Naval officer who has no real experience running a large bureaucracy, would inherit a set of challenges that have bedeviled Democratic and Republican administrations alike. The department, the federal government’s second largest, has been burdened for years by aging infrastructure, an inefficient health care system and an unwieldy 360,000-person work force.

He could also quickly face crucial, multibillion-dollar decisions over the replacement of its outdated computerized records system and legislation that would ease the rules around veterans seeking private health care at government expense.

The announcement punctuated what has been a rapid fall from favor for Dr. Shulkin, a politically moderate former hospital executive who delivered Mr. Trump a string of bipartisan legislative victories at a time when he was struggling to find them. But in his final weeks, he struggled to fight off attempts by more conservative administration officials to have him removed and was dogged by an unflattering inspector general report on his overseas travel that undermined his relationship with the president.

Dr. Shulkin’s departure was the latest chapter in the remaking of Mr. Trump’s team of senior advisers, a shake-up that has led to the replacement of the secretary of state, the director of the C.I.A. and the national security adviser, along with White House aides.

In the midst of that turmoil, Dr. Jackson, 50, who was named to his current position by President Barack Obama in 2013, has grown close with Mr. Trump, a commander in chief who enjoys familiar faces in his orbit and often rewards them with new roles.

Dr. Jackson had a rare turn in the spotlight in January, when he announced the results of Mr. Trump’s physical, his first while in office, and addressed speculation over the president’s physical and mental health. The president was very pleased with the performance.

“I’ve found no reason whatsoever to think the president has any issues whatsoever with his thought processes,” Dr. Jackson said.

His policy views are all but unknown, though, especially on Capitol Hill, where the Senate will decide whether he is up to leading the department. Senators, including Johnny Isakson of Georgia, the chairman of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, issued cautious statements on Wednesday praising Dr. Shulkin and indicating that they would need to get to know the nominee.

That tone was echoed by mainstream veterans groups like Disabled American Veterans and the American Legion, who hold considerable sway in Washington, and who warned of a potential leadership vacuum at the department.

Privately, several White House aides acknowledged that Dr. Jackson’s lack of managerial experience could be problematic and said that once again the president’s interest in his personal bond with someone was more significant than their curriculum vitae.

In a Twitter post on Wednesday announcing the changes, Mr. Trump called Dr. Jackson “highly respected” and thanked Dr. Shulkin for “service to our country and to our great veterans.”

Mr. Trump said that Robert Wilkie, the under secretary for defense personnel and readiness at the Defense Department, would serve as acting secretary in the meantime, bypassing the department’s deputy secretary, Thomas G. Bowman.

The White House did not respond to a request asking who would replace Dr. Jackson.

Dr. Shulkin, who served as under secretary of veterans affairs in the Obama administration, had begun to make headway on some of the department’s most persistent problems. Those included an expansion of the G.I. Bill for post-9/11 veterans, legislation that makes it easier for the department to remove bad employees and a law that streamlines the appeals process for veterans seeking disability benefits.

Those successes and his easy grasp of complicated policy issues won Dr. Shulkin deep support on Capitol Hill and among veterans groups. And Mr. Trump, who made veterans issues and overhauling the scandal-ridden department a focal point of his campaign, showered Dr. Shulkin with praise. At a bill-signing ceremony in June, the president teased that the secretary need never worry about hearing his “Apprentice”-era catchphrase, “You’re fired.”

“We’ll never have to use those words on our David,” Mr. Trump said. “We will never use those words on you, that’s for sure.”

But in recent months, a group of conservative Trump administration appointees at the White House and the department began to break with the secretary and plot his ouster. At issue was how far and how fast to privatize health care for veterans, a long-sought goal for conservatives like the Koch brothers.

The officials — who included Dr. Shulkin’s press secretary and assistant secretary for communications, along with a top White House domestic policy aide — came to consider Dr. Shulkin and his top deputy as obstacles.

The secretary’s troubles only grew when what had been an internal power struggle burst into the open in February, after the department’s inspector general issued a scathing report on a trip Dr. Shulkin took last year to Britain and Denmark. The report, describing what it called “serious derelictions,” found the secretary had spent much of the trip sightseeing and had improperly accepted Wimbledon tickets as a gift.

Critics of the secretary seized on the report to try to hasten his removal. Dr. Shulkin, fearing a coup, went public with a warning about officials “trying to undermine the department from within” and cut off those he saw as disloyal. The efforts backfired. At the White House, senior officials came to believe that Dr. Shulkin had misled them about the contents of the report. And the secretary’s public declarations only further aggravated top officials, who felt Dr. Shulkin had gone too far in commenting on internal politics with news outlets and had opened the administration to sharp criticism over his trip to Europe, which the report said cost more than $122,000.

But as recently as early March, after meetings with John F. Kelly, the White House chief of staff, Dr. Shulkin publicly claimed victory, signaling that he had the White House’s support to remove officials opposing him.

The victory was short-lived. Before long, Dr. Shulkin sharply curtailed his public profile, cutting off communications with reporters and isolating himself from top deputies he viewed as disloyal. People who have spoken with the secretary in recent days said he was determined to keep his post, even as it became increasingly clear his time was up. He was set to meet with leaders from the nation’s largest veterans groups on Thursday.

Despite his problems with the White House, Dr. Shulkin remained overwhelmingly popular on Capitol Hill, where the Senate unanimously confirmed him last year, and among the veterans groups that have traditionally held outsize influence in Washington. In recent weeks, leaders from both parties publicly and privately signaled their support, even as rumors of his replacement appeared in news reports.

But Mr. Trump had had enough. He began to discuss successors in recent weeks, even considering  Energy Secretary Rick Perry as a possibility. He told friends last weekend that he would fire Dr. Shulkin, it was just a question of when.

Dr. Shulkin had made a preliminary inquiry about having Dr. Jackson for an under secretary role last year, and the president spoke with him briefly about it then, one senior administration official said. But it went nowhere at the time.

By Monday, Mr. Trump had started animatedly talking with a handful of people about the idea of Dr. Jackson’s replacing Dr. Shulkin, people familiar with the discussions said. Still, he did not tell many advisers of his plan until soon before it was announced.

A Navy doctor since 1995, Dr. Jackson deployed as an emergency medicine physician to Taqaddum, Iraq, during the Iraq war. He has served as a member of the White House medical unit since 2006 and as its lead physician since 2013, overseeing Mr. Obama’s physicals.

Dr. Jackson had told several people that he planned to retire from Washington after Mr. Obama left office. But Mr. Trump, whose previous personal physician made headlines with a series of unauthorized news interviews about his patient, asked Dr. Jackson to stay on. Mr. Trump, who goes to great lengths to hide details of his personal life, quickly came to trust Dr. Jackson, referring to him warmly as “Doc” around the White House.

Democrats, moderate Republicans and mainline veterans groups have all feared that Dr. Shulkin’s departure could clear the way for a more aggressive push for government-subsidized private care at the department.

“Every major veterans’ organization in this country vigorously opposes the privatization of the V.A.,” Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont and a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee, said in a statement. “I stand with them. Our job is to strengthen the V.A. in order to provide high-quality care to our veterans, not dismember it.”

LEXINGTON, Ky. —  Young, telegenic and news media savvy, State Auditor Adam Edelen looked like a shoo-in for re-election when Democrats gathered in a horse barn here for a buffet dinner late last month. Most figured he would go on to challenge Senator Rand Paul, whose Republican presidential bid is faltering even as he seeks re-election.

Now a Paul-Edelen matchup is off the table. Kentucky Democrats, including Mr. Edelen, were trounced last week in an election that swept aside decades of their dominance over state government — and added Mr. Edelen to a growing list of Democrats across the country who have had painful defeats since President Obama was elected.

“In terms of governors, legislators and constitutional officers, the bench has been eviscerated during his tenure,” said Mr. Edelen, 40, who says it would be “too difficult” for him to beat Mr. Paul and plans to go back to the private sector. He called the loss of Democratic talent across the country “regrettable” and said, “It will have very long-term consequences.”

While Mr. Obama’s 2008 election helped usher in a political resurgence for Democrats, the president today presides over a shrinking party whose control of elected offices at the state and local levels has declined precipitously. In January, Republicans will occupy 32 of the nation’s governorships, 10 more than they did in 2009. Democratic losses in state legislatures under Mr. Obama rank among the worst in the last 115 years, with 816 Democratic lawmakers losing their jobs and Republican control of legislatures doubling since the president took office — more seats lost than under any president since Dwight D. Eisenhower.

“Republicans have more chambers today than they have ever had in the history of the party,” said Tim Storey, an analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures. “So they are in a dominant and historic position of strength in the states.”

The Democratic losses reflect a political realignment that began before Mr. Obama’s election and has accelerated since he took office, in which the electorate is increasingly polarized, and the partisan divisions of presidential politics are felt at all levels. The result has been a resurgence of Republican political power in governor’s offices and state legislatures, giving them the ability to draw districts and create voting rules that will benefit their party for many years to come. It has also meant a hollowing out of the roster of potential Democratic candidates for major races, knocking out candidates like Mr. Edelen, who drew national attention after video footage of one of his speeches aired on MSNBC.

The absence of up-and-coming Democrats is evident in Washington, where the party leadership in Congress consists largely of aging veterans. The average age of the three top Democratic leaders in the House is 75, while the three most senior Republican leaders — with the new speaker of the House, Paul D. Ryan — average 48 years old.

There are a handful of young, ambitious members of the Democratic caucus, especially in the House, but it may be years before they are ready to play a bigger role on the national stage.

In the Democratic presidential race, Hillary Rodham Clinton is 68; Bernie Sanders, the senator from Vermont, is 74; and the biggest intrigue had been whether Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who turns 73 next week, would join them. (Martin O’Malley, the former governor of Maryland, is the party’s youngest candidate at 52, though he is a major long shot.)

Linking Democratic candidates to Mr. Obama in general, and his health care plan in particular, have long proved winning Republican campaign tactics in many states, but he is hardly the first president to become an election-year burden for some members of his own party. Republicans experienced big losses in 2006 and 2008, many of them attributed to the sagging popularity of President George W. Bush, the economic meltdown and deep concerns about Mr. Bush’s conduct of the war in Iraq. By some measures, Republican losses in Congress under Mr. Bush were larger than Democratic congressional losses under Mr. Obama. And Democrats say Mr. Obama has been successful in building a new Democratic coalition in presidential politics and in mobilizing minority voters.

But even some supporters say that Democrats face a major challenge in cultivating a new generation of politicians able to reach beyond the Democratic base and speak to white voters, especially white men, in states around the country. Bill Richardson, the governor of New Mexico from 2003 to 2011, said he was very worried by the absence of successful Democratic candidates positioned to move up, especially in the South, as well as in swing states like Ohio.

“We are losing the white male vote in droves, and we’ve got to appeal to the white male with stronger economic themes, inequality themes,” he said. “We have to find a way to do that, but what is key is recruiting more white male, and women, candidates. We can’t just become the minority advocate party.”

At a $33,400-a-plate fund-raiser last week, Mr. Obama described a Democratic vision that he said had succeeded in overhauling health care, reviving a moribund economy and making progress on climate change. But he acknowledged the difficulty that Democrats sometimes had in winning over voters.

“All they know is, nothing works up there, a plague on both their houses,” Mr. Obama told more than 300 donors at a home in suburban Maryland. “And so then they stop voting. And they give up on the system. And when we don’t vote, oftentimes we lose.”

Other Democrats have different explanations. State Representative D. Stephen Holland, a Mississippi Democrat, said Republicans had exploited Mr. Obama’s race to make gains in the South.

“It’s real simple: We’ve been outfoxed, outfinessed and outspent,” Mr. Holland said. “And the Republican Party has used the first African-American president to further slam us. It’s virtually overt racism, in my opinion.”

Gov. Pat McCrory of North Carolina, a Republican, acknowledged that Mr. Obama had been crucial to Republican successes throughout his presidency. But he disputed the contention that racism was in play.

“On the racial issue, it’s the Democrats that are bringing those issues up, or attempting to, to divide our people,” Mr. McCrory said. “It’s not an issue that 90 percent of people are talking about. People are wanting to talk about, how do I get a job and a career?”

The Democratic Party’s problems differ from state to state and election to election. Democratic leaders in Ohio say they control the mayor’s office in nine of 10 of the state’s largest cities and can do well when they focus on jobs and opportunities, including the president’s record, particularly his auto bailout. But a deeply flawed candidate for governor, Ed FitzGerald, lost in a landslide to Gov. John Kasich last year, dragging the party down with him, Democrats say.

“We had a difficult time with the top of the ticket, and that dragged down all the others statewide and the locals,” said Joe Schiavoni, the minority leader of the Ohio Senate.

State Representative Andy Jorgensen, a member of the Democratic leadership in the Wisconsin House, noted that even the best Democratic candidates will have trouble running in Republican-dominated districts.

“The gerrymandered state we’re in is also a challenge,” Mr. Jorgensen said.

Democrats have one last chance at a breakthrough this year, in the Nov. 21 governor’s runoff in heavily Republican and often volatile Louisiana. Polls show State Representative John Bel Edwards, a Democrat, running ahead of Senator David Vitter, a Republican who had been a heavy favorite but has been dogged by the resurgence of a prostitution scandal from his past.

In states where Democratic despair is deepest, recruiting and even retaining candidates can be a challenge. Jody Steverson, a state representative from Mississippi, announced that he was switching parties two days after he was re-elected on the Democratic ticket last week. “You just can’t be a conservative and a Democrat in Mississippi anymore,” he said.

Here in Kentucky, Mr. Edelen called the debate over Mr. Obama “yesterday’s conversation.” The problem for Democrats in Middle America, he said, is that the party is “perceived to be elite” — a perception he said the president had helped foster — and is “not speaking to blue-collar, middle-class aspirations.”

He said: “That’s the challenge for the Democratic Party going forward — how do we re-engage the guy who works in the factory or the woman who’s trying to raise kids on a waitress’s salary?”

Still, he lamented a loss of talent, friends and peers like Jason Carter, who lost the governor’s race in Georgia last year, or Vincent A. Sheheen, who lost a bid to become governor of South Carolina.

“I don’t think any of us are dead,” Mr. Edelen said, “but we are resting and waiting for clearer skies.”