WASHINGTON — President Obama will return next month to Springfield, Ill., where he began his campaign to become president, to call for something he has struggled to deliver in Washington: a less divisive politics in America.

Mr. Obama announced his candidacy for president on Feb. 10, 2007 on the steps of the Old State Capitol in Springfield. He will return to the Capitol exactly nine years later and will speak to the Illinois General Assembly, where he once served as a state senator.

Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said Mr. Obama’s remarks would be “about what we can do together as a country to build a better politics and one that reflects our better self.”

That is a goal that Mr. Obama talked about in his last State of the Union speech, in January. In those remarks, he challenged Americans to answer the question: “How can we make our politics reflect what’s best in us, and not what’s worst?”

That echoes what Mr. Obama said on the frigid day in 2007 when he announced his candidacy. “In the face of a politics that’s shut you out, that’s told you to settle, that’s divided us for too long, you believe we can be one people, reaching for what’s possible, building that more perfect union,” he told the large crowd assembled that day.

In the years since, however, Mr. Obama has served at the center of a city where the politics remain more divisive than ever. Congressional gridlock, fueled by intense partisanship, stymied much of Mr. Obama’s agenda during his years as president. And the campaign underway to replace Mr. Obama has been marked by bitter polarization.

Mr. Earnest said that Mr. Obama would address the president’s conclusion to his 2007 speech, which called for Americans to “take up the unfinished business of perfecting our union.”

GREENVILLE, S.C. —  The death of Justice Antonin Scalia on Saturday thrust the Supreme Court to the center of the already-volatile Republican presidential race, with the party’s candidates asserting that President Obama should not nominate a successor as they sought to court conservatives who have driven the party’s discourse in the current campaign.

With Senator Ted Cruz and Donald J. Trump riding a wave of voter anger to victory in the first two nominating states, the issue was one of rare unanimity in a field in which the candidates showed again in the debate Saturday night that they diverged on much else. Their opposition to Mr. Obama coming forward with a nomination highlighted how the candidates were ever mindful of the party’s hard-line base, particularly as the contest moves to the Southern states.

“I think it’s up to Mitch McConnell and everybody else to stop it: It’s called delay, delay, delay,” Mr. Trump said at the debate, referring to the Senate Republican leader, winning booming applause from the audience in a state where polls show he enjoys a lead ahead of the primary this week.

Mr. Cruz warned that, given Mr. Scalia’s death, “two branches of government hang in the balance, not just the presidency, but the Supreme Court,” citing future decisions on guns, abortion and same-sex marriage.

The wall of opposition from the Republican contenders to Mr. Obama going forward with a nomination was the latest indication of just how much the anti-establishment candidates in the field have set the pace in the contest. Jeb Bush, Senator Marco Rubio and Gov. John R. Kasich of Ohio, each grappling with how to compete with Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz, have been pressed to decide between positions that could haunt them in the general election or consign themselves to irrelevance in the nominating fight.

Mr. Kasich, who fought his way to a distant second place against Mr. Trump in New Hampshire thanks largely to winning the support of self-described moderates, lamented Saturday how quickly the conversation about Justice Scalia had turned to politics, observing that “the country is so divided right now.” But he quickly pivoted to say that Mr. Obama should forfeit his right to appoint a replacement for Justice Scalia and “let the next president decide.”

That even the lone candidate running as a pragmatist would take such a step illustrates the deep mistrust of Mr. Obama on the right and the peril Republicans face with the party’s base if they are seen acquiescing to the president.

“If there’s any move within the Senate to consider a confirmation this year, I think you would see outright rebellion from all across America and particularly these candidates,” said Jim DeMint, the head of the conservative Heritage Foundation and a former South Carolina senator.

Democrats, sensing a prime opportunity to make Republicans pay a political price for bowing to their hard-liners, moved quickly on Saturday to stir up outrage from their own partisans.

“It is outrageous that Republicans in the Senate and on the campaign trail have already pledged to block any replacement that President Obama nominates,” Hillary Clinton told Democrats at a party dinner in Denver on Saturday night, adding that doing so “is totally out of step with our history and our constitutional principle.”

Democrats also quickly pointed out that Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who was selected by Ronald Reagan, was confirmed in 1988, an election year, and enjoyed near-unanimous support from Democrats. (Justice Kennedy was, however, nominated in November 1987.)

Republican officials privately acknowledged that refusing to bring Mr. Obama’s appointment to a vote could prove difficult to sustain, particularly with the Senate controlled by a handful of Republican incumbents from moderate and liberal-leaning states. It was notable that Senator Rob Portman of Ohio, who faces re-election this year, made no pledge about blocking Mr. Obama’s pick in his statement regarding Justice Scalia’s death.

But for now the best many party leaders could hope for is that Justice Scalia’s death, like the attacks on Paris last November, would jar voters enough to make them reconsider their support of Mr. Trump.

“His death makes the race a live-fire exercise for the first time, in my view,” said Josh Holmes, a Republican strategist, adding: “Personality doesn’t stop constitutional infringements, Justice Scalia does. Now we need another one.”

Other Republican officials used Justice Scalia’s death to plead with voters about the importance of electability, warning that conservatives could block his replacement all year only to see a liberal appointed if a Democrat succeeds Mr. Obama.

“You can’t replace him if you don’t win,” said Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, a supporter of Mr. Bush. “So I hope conservatives will understand this is a wake-up call. You better nominate somebody who can get 270 electoral votes — Donald Trump can’t, Ted Cruz can’t.”

For their part, Democrats, who have been increasingly concerned about their own prospects in the wake of Mrs. Clinton’s 22-point drubbing in New Hampshire, were all but elated about the prospect of attacking Republicans for refusing to fill a vacancy on the Supreme Court for an entire year.

“Not only will Republicans be shutting down the third branch of government, but they’re doing it so they can take away a woman’s right to make her own health decisions, deport Hispanic children, roll back clean air protections and voting rights,” said Stephanie Cutter, a Democratic strategist. “I don’t think there’s a young person, a woman, a Democrat, independent or a diverse voter that will stay home.”