WASHINGTON —  President Obama gathered more than 50 world leaders here on Thursday to discuss one of his favorite topics: locking down nuclear weapons. But it was Mr. Obama’s meeting with one of the less friendly of those leaders, President Xi Jinping of China, that captured most of the attention.

The leaders announced that the United States and China would sign a climate change accord later in April, a show of unity on an issue that has become a bright spot in the tangled relationship between the two countries. But they quickly moved on to more contentious issues, with Mr. Obama pressing Mr. Xi on China’s construction of military facilities in the South China Sea, actions that a White House official said belied a pledge the Chinese president had made last fall not to militarize those waters.

“Like China and other countries, the United States has significant interests in the Asia-Pacific region,” Mr. Obama said to Mr. Xi before the meeting, his only extended encounter with a visiting leader at the Nuclear Security Summit, which will conclude on Friday.

“Our two countries have some disputes and disagreements,” Mr. Xi replied. He called for both sides to “avoid misunderstanding and misperceptions,” and to respect each other’s core interests — a polite warning not to meddle in the South China Sea, which Beijing regards as a core interest.

China’s neighbors dispute its claims to reefs and shoals, and fear that it is colonizing one of the world’s most strategic waterways. The United States has dispatched Navy ships to guarantee that the sea lanes remain unobstructed, but that has raised the risk of a confrontation with Chinese warships.

During a visit to Washington in September, Mr. Xi declared that China would not “pursue militarization” of the South China Sea. But since then, it has installed surface-to-air missile batteries and military radar on reefs and newly reclaimed islands hundreds of miles from the Chinese mainland.

“We have seen developments and reports that are not consistent with the commitment not to militarize the South China Sea,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser.

Mr. Xi and Mr. Obama found more common ground on confronting the nuclear threat posed by North Korea. China supported a new round of United Nations sanctions against the Pyongyang government after it tested a nuclear device and fired ballistic missiles.

To reassure America’s allies in the face of their rogue neighbor, Mr. Obama also met with Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan and South Korea’s president, Park Geun-hye.

Those countries were thrust into the American political campaign in recent days after the Republican front-runner, Donald J. Trump, proposed they acquire nuclear weapons to deter the threat from North Korea. A senior Japanese official quickly reaffirmed Japan’s commitment to remain nuclear-free.

Mr. Trump’s comments did not come up in the three-way meeting with Mr. Obama, according to American officials. But Mr. Rhodes issued a withering response to the proposal, saying it would undercut decades of nonproliferation policy.

“It would be catastrophic were the United States to shift its position and indicate that we somehow support the proliferation of nuclear weapons,” he said.

“The entire premise of American foreign policy as it relates to nuclear weapons for the last 70 years has been focused on preventing the proliferation of nuclear weapons,” he continued. “That has been the position of bipartisan administrations, of everybody who has occupied the Oval Office.”

Domestic politics and regional concerns both seemed to crowd out any discussion of global efforts to secure nuclear materials. And for all the hubbub — the intense security; the motorcades snarling traffic in downtown Washington — the meeting opened on a subdued note.

Russia’s president, Vladimir V. Putin, was a no-show, which made breakthroughs on security unlikely, given his country’s vast nuclear stockpile. The terrorist attack in Belgium last week also cast a shadow over the gathering, particularly after reports that fighters for the Islamic State were seeking to penetrate a nuclear facility to obtain material for a so-called radioactive dirty bomb.

Mr. Obama has added a session to discuss the campaign against the Islamic State, in which the administration continues to claim gains. He met on Thursday with President François Hollande of France, his only one-on-one session with a leader aside from Mr. Xi. Mr. Obama praised Mr. Hollande for “galvanizing the European community” in the fight against terrorism.

The president’s refusal to meet with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey roiled the diplomatic waters, suggesting that Mr. Obama was displeased with Mr. Erdogan’s authoritarian bent. But the White House said Mr. Obama met briefly with him on Thursday evening.

Mr. Putin’s snub was not unexpected, given the rift between Russia and the United States over Syria and Ukraine. But the White House pointed out that Russia has nevertheless cooperated on nuclear issues, not least its role in the talks with Iran over curbing its nuclear program. (Iran was not invited to attend the summit meeting.)

“You want Russia at the table on issues of nuclear security,” Mr. Rhodes said. “They only isolate themselves by not attending summits like this.”

This was the fourth and final Nuclear Security Summit of Mr. Obama’s presidency, and with Mr. Obama — who conceived and championed these meetings — leaving office next year, several experts said this was likely to be the last.

When Mr. Obama departs in January, it is not clear who will keep the momentum going. While the Democratic front-runner, Hillary Clinton, supports Mr. Obama’s nonproliferation policies, she has evinced little of his fervor for a nuclear-free world.

But as the leaders arrived for a dinner at the White House past an honor guard lined up along the South Lawn, Mr. Obama could claim one achievement: An amendment to a treaty that stiffens standards for protecting nuclear materials was signed by 102 nations.

The original protection agreement dates to 1987, but it has long been considered weak. The amendment, proposed after the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, specifies minimum requirements for physical protection of civilian nuclear stocks, and for securing them when they are transported.

As part of an effort to be more open about its nuclear inventory, the United States announced that its stockpile of highly enriched uranium declined 20 percent, to 585.6 metric tons in 2013 from 740.7 metric tons in 1996. The decline was modest, but it was the first time in 15 years that the government released these numbers.

A senior administration official, who declined to speak on the record ahead of the president’s announcement, said that the amendments to the physical protection agreement are “the closest thing we have to legally binding standards for nuclear security.”

WASHINGTON —  President Obama on Friday questioned Donald J. Trump’s fitness for office after statements from the Republican front-runner that the United States and its allies should move away from decades of constraints on the use of nuclear weapons. “We don’t want somebody in the Oval Office who doesn’t recognize how important that is,” Mr. Obama said.

Speaking to reporters at the end of a summit meeting devoted to nuclear security, the president said the comments by Mr. Trump reflected a person who “doesn’t know much about foreign policy or nuclear policy or the Korean Peninsula or the world generally.”

Mr. Obama has not hesitated to criticize Mr. Trump for contributing to a coarse tone and circuslike atmosphere on the campaign trail. But his criticism of the candidate’s comments on nuclear proliferation was not about public language or personal style, but about one of the gravest responsibilities of an American president. It carried an extra edge because it involved an issue that Mr. Obama has made a central goal of his presidency.

He said world leaders and other participants at the conference had expressed concerns about Mr. Trump’s comments during private conversations with him at the summit meeting, which gathered more than 50 world leaders to discuss ways to reduce the threat of a nuclear attack, whether from the leakage of nuclear fuel or the theft of a bomb by a terrorist group.

“Even those countries that are used to a carnival atmosphere in their own politics want sobriety and clarity when it comes to U.S. elections because they understand that the president of the United States needs to know what’s going on around the world,” Mr. Obama said.

For the president, the two-day Nuclear Security Summit underscored both the loftiness of his vision for a nuclear-free planet and the hurdles of translating that vision into reality in a world of insecure leaders and of terrorist groups plotting to seize weapons. But the remarks of an American presidential candidate roiled the waters.

Mr. Trump said he was open to allowing Japan and South Korea to acquire nuclear weapons to deter their rogue neighbor, North Korea. He also declined to rule out using nuclear weapons in a military conflict in Europe, saying, “You don’t want to, say, take everything off the table.”

He first broached the issue of a nuclear-armed Japan and South Korea in an interview with The New York Times last week, putting it in the context of his case that the United States should no longer bear the full burden of defending its Asian allies. He defended his comments in a town-hall-style meeting on Tuesday in Milwaukee, televised by CNN.

“You have so many countries already — China, Pakistan, you have so many countries, Russia — you have so many countries right now that have them,” he said. “Now, wouldn’t you rather, in a certain sense, have Japan have nuclear weapons when North Korea has nuclear weapons?” A senior Japanese government official quickly reiterated that it was Japan’s policy never to possess nuclear weapons.

On Friday, Mr. Obama described the alliance with Japan and South Korea as “one of the cornerstones of our presence in the Asia-Pacific region” — one that was paid for with the sacrifices of American soldiers during World War II, one that has expanded American influence and commerce and one that “has underwritten the peace and prosperity of that region.”

“You don’t mess with that,” Mr. Obama added.

In summarizing the accomplishments of the Nuclear Security Summits — this was the fourth and final one of his presidency — Mr. Obama acknowledged a tension between his emphasis on nonproliferation and the American military’s relentless efforts to improve the efficiency of its existing stockpile of nuclear warheads. These American technological advances rattle Russia and China, which cite them as a pretext to develop their own new weapons.

“I’ve tried to strike the proper balance,” Mr. Obama said. He noted that he had tried to negotiate a further round of arms reductions with Russia after the New Start treaty. But the return to the presidency of Vladimir V. Putin ended those prospects. In the meantime, he said, the United States needed to make sure its stockpile was “safe and reliable.”

Mr. Putin boycotted this meeting, which foreclosed the possibility of ambitious agreements, since Russia is one of the world’s two largest nuclear-weapons states, along with the United States.

Earlier on Friday, Mr. Obama argued that his marquee accomplishment in nonproliferation — the nuclear deal with Iran — had “achieved a substantial success.” Because of restrictions that the deal imposed on Iran’s nuclear program, he said, it would now take the Iranians about a year to build a bomb — if it breached the deal — as opposed to two to three months before the diplomatic effort began in mid-2012.

Asked about reports that the Treasury Department would allow Iran to conduct transactions in United States dollars, Mr. Obama did not answer directly, but suggested that Iran could get access to American banking markets indirectly through European banks. The reports have drawn sharp criticism from lawmakers, including the House speaker, Paul D. Ryan, who urged the White House not to go ahead.

Beyond that issue, Mr. Obama said Tehran could attract more American businesses by adhering not just to the letter of the nuclear deal but to its spirit, which meant not shipping missiles to the militant group Hezbollah, or otherwise destabilizing the region.

The attacks in Brussels and Paris led the president to add a session on terrorism and nuclear security. After banishing reporters and cameras from the room, he showed the leaders a video depicting a terrorist attack in a city involving a nuclear device. Afterward, the leaders discussed how they would handle such an attack.

“Fortunately, no terrorist group has yet succeeded in getting their hands on a nuclear device,” Mr. Obama told them beforehand. “Our work here will help ensure that we’re doing everything possible to prevent that.”

The meeting generated a list of announcements, including the reduction of stockpiles of highly enriched uranium in a variety of countries, including Poland and Kazakhstan, and an agreement to remove separated plutonium from Japan. The nature of these gatherings is that each nation brings along its “gifts,” or proposed offerings, and American officials say that having the leaders all show up for the summit meeting creates a forcing mechanism to get that work done.

But there are also moments that reveal behind-the-scenes disagreements, and one was evident Friday with Japan.

The energy secretary, Ernest J. Moniz, appeared with a senior Japanese official to celebrate the removal of half a ton of highly enriched uranium and separated plutonium, which was shipped to the United States. But the two men took no questions, leaving the Japanese unchallenged about the fact that they are moving ahead on a new plutonium reprocessing plant that should produce up to eight tons of plutonium each year.

That raises concern that Japan will sit on a large supply of nuclear fuel, always a source of tension with its neighbors. Francie Israeli, an Energy Department spokeswoman, said that Japan had removed some of the most sensitive materials and that “we understand that they intend to balance any future reprocessing activities with consumption or disposition.” 

Last summer, The New York Times published a story on what President Obama does after hours. It recounted that he works on speeches, answers nightly letters from 10 Americans, and eats seven lightly-salted almonds — which incited an outsize response that caused Obama to explain that while he does enjoy almonds, he doesn’t eat exactly seven every night.

In the same story about Obama’s evening routine, the current mayor of Chicago, Rahm Emanuel, recalled the dream that he and Obama would often joke about: opening a T-shirt shack in Hawaii, where they would sell only sell one size (medium) and one color (white) — to no longer have to make another job-related decision. “I read that and something just clicked,” says the writer, artist and T contributor Emily Spivack, who brings a version of his dream to life this week.

“I can’t begin to fathom the kind of stress the president deals with every day,” Spivack says, “but everyone suffers decision-making fatigue, and the concept of a durable white T-shirt as a symbol of a kind of freedom from that is something I can relate to.” Her monthlong pop-up shop opens Wednesday on the island of Oahu, Obama’s birthplace, as both an homage to the 44th president (the shirts cost $44 each) and an ode to the concept of simplicity.

Spivack reached out to the Honolulu Museum of Art for guidance, which is designating the project an official off-site installation. And the Brooklyn-based GRT Architects designed the space (along with help from local architect Stephanie Hsu), which will be located in Honolulu’s Ward Village shopping complex, just west of Waikiki.

The “shack” includes sand, beach chairs, a repurposed wooden deck from Re-Use Hawaii, and a pair of real palm trees on loan from a local nursery. The 1,000 T-shirts — all cotton and made in the USA — were donated by the creative digital enterprise Print All Over Me, and all sales will benefit two island organizations: the Bus Federation Civic Fund (a youth-based get-out-the-vote program) and Ma’o Organic Farms, on the west side of Oahu.

“I’m overwhelmed by the amount of support this has gotten,” says Spivack, who will make half of the T-shirts available for sale online. “We have local volunteers, but also people that are flying in from across the country just to staff the shack. I think that whatever one’s politics are, there’s a feeling of appreciation and a certain level of respect for Obama.” This is especially true for one local supporter in particular — Maya Soetoro-Ng, Obama’s half sister, who will preside over the opening, and who presented her brother with the store’s first T-shirt last month as a holiday gift.

WASHINGTON — When President Trump swept into the White House in January, some of his advisers gleefully predicted that his victory would set off a populist wave across Europe, scattering mainstream parties on the left and right and wedding Europeans to the same nationalist ideology that Mr. Trump espoused in the United States.

With far-right parties then on the rise across the Continent, it did not seem that far-fetched a proposition.

Now, with the French presidential election starting this weekend, Mr. Trump faces the stiffest test yet of whether his brand of nationalism and nativism appeals to voters elsewhere in the Western world.

That may explain why the president decided to weigh in on the campaign as brashly as he did on Friday, writing on Twitter that the terrorist shooting in Paris would upend the election.

“The people of France will not take much more of this,” Mr. Trump said. “Will have a big effect on presidential election!”

The White House insisted the president was not trying to tilt the outcome of an election abroad that includes a nationalist candidate. Officials said he was merely extrapolating from his own experience: In late 2015, Mr. Trump’s candidacy got a propulsive lift from fears of terrorism in the aftermath of deadly terrorist attacks in Paris and San Bernardino, Calif.

But Mr. Trump always viewed his victory as part of a global populist movement. His election came just months after Britain’s decision to leave the European Union, commonly known as Brexit. Far-right parties seemed to be on the rise in Austria, the Netherlands and even Germany, where nationalist parties had failed for decades to gain a foothold.

The big prize was France. Marine Le Pen, the leader of the National Front party, has a credible chance of winning the presidency, running on an anti-immigrant platform that echoes Mr. Trump’s.

If Mr. Trump is keeping score, however, as he most assuredly is, he would have to admit the Trump wave has yet to rise. In Austria in December, voters narrowly chose a Green Party candidate over one from the far-right Freedom Party as president. In the Netherlands last month, the Party of Freedom fell short of being the largest party in the House of Representatives. Some European analysts speak of a Trump backlash.

Ms. Le Pen still has a chance of winning. But France’s presidential election has become a fragmented affair, with her and three other candidates — a conventional conservative; a centrist, a former banker; and a rising leftist — all vying to emerge from the pack in a campaign that has been driven as much by concerns over the economy as terrorism and security. Voters will choose among 11 candidates in the first round of national voting on Sunday.

Moreover, Mr. Trump is unpopular in France, and as a result, Ms. Le Pen does not invoke his name on the campaign trail, even if his campaign is in some ways a blueprint for hers.

There is little doubt he favors Ms. Le Pen. In an interview with The Associated Press, Mr. Trump said Friday that though he would not endorse her, the fatal shooting of a police officer on the Champs-Élysées, an act claimed by the Islamic State, would help her because she was the candidate who is “strongest on borders, and she’s the strongest on what’s been going on in France.”

Ms. Le Pen seized on the attack to turn the election into a referendum on what she calls “radical Islam.”

She and Mr. Trump do not know each other, but early on, she clearly sought to tie herself to his success. After his election, Ms. Le Pen exulted that it had “made possible what had previously been impossible.” In January, during the transition, Ms. Le Pen was photographed having coffee at the Trump Tower cafe, prompting a flurry of rumors about whether she was in Manhattan to meet the president-elect. (Mr. Trump’s aides denied it.)

Fears about Mr. Trump’s influence over elections in Europe deepened after the disclosure that Breitbart News, the far-right website formerly run by the president’s chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, planned to open offices in Paris and Berlin. (Mr. Bannon has cut his ties with Breitbart, though he continues to talk to its journalists. While many are convinced that the White House exerts influence over its coverage, the website has also been critical of the Trump administration, angering Mr. Bannon in at least one case.)

There is little evidence the White House has tried to influence the election in France, beyond Mr. Trump’s Twitter post. Even that, the White House argued, was simply the president acting as a political analyst.

“Major events have, clearly, effects on voters’ attitudes,” said the White House press secretary, Sean Spicer. “But I’m not going to weigh in. Let the voters of France decide this Sunday what direction they want their country to go in.”

Some European diplomats said the real threat of interference was not from the United States but from Russia, which has used internet trolls, “fake news” and hacking to disrupt European elections, much as it did during the 2016 United States presidential campaign.

American presidents generally avoid meddling too obviously in the politics of other countries, though there is plenty of precedent for their trying to influence outcomes in less obvious ways.

Mr. Trump has little use for such diplomatic niceties. Soon after being elected, he publicly advised the British government to appoint the pro-Brexit leader, Nigel Farage, as ambassador to the United States.

Even President Barack Obama, who tried to avoid being accused of meddling, got into trouble when he warned Britain, before the referendum, that it would go to the end of the line in future trade negotiations with the United States if it voted to leave the European Union.

This week, Mr. Obama’s aides played down the significance of a phone call between him and Emmanuel Macron, the former banker and independent candidate, who urged the French not to overreact to the Paris shooting.

“They want France to be afraid,” Mr. Macron said of the terrorists, sounding a lot like Mr. Obama.

In France, where political experts and pollsters were struggling to gauge the consequences of Thursday’s attack on the psyche of voters, Mr. Trump’s Twitter message was expected to carry little weight.

“It’s nonexistent,” said Thomas Guénolé, a political scientist and lecturer at Sciences Po, a political science institute in Paris. Voters who would possibly be influenced by Mr. Trump’s views were “very politicized,” he said, and were probably already voting for Ms. Le Pen.

None of the presidential candidates, nor other major French politicians, reacted to Mr. Trump’s Twitter post, and it was barely mentioned by French Twitter users, said Guilhem Fouetillou, the head of Linkfluence, which monitors the impact of social media services.

“It mostly has Americans reacting,” he said.

CHICAGO — If the metal barricades, “Do Not Enter” signs and lurking Secret Service agents were a bother the past eight years in the Hyde Park-Kenwood area — the South Side neighborhood where President Obama still owns a house, but rarely has been home — residents are not complaining.

“All that’s been fine, really. You get used to it,” said Adela Cepeda, who like many people on Mr. Obama’s block of Greenwood Avenue met him before he was president, or a senator, or elected to anything at all. “To me, it’s just too bad his time will be over. This has been fabulous for Chicago in a certain way. I think that all things being equal, we came first. But I guess all good things must end.”

As Mr. Obama prepared to give his farewell address on Tuesday from McCormick Place, the cavernous convention center beside Lake Michigan, people in his hometown sounded by turns possessive, proud, anxious and wistful. With his election in 2008, this city — and its heavily African-American South Side in particular — had suddenly been thrust to the forefront of the national political conversation. And so early Saturday, in temperatures barely above zero, thousands waited outside for the chance to receive free tickets to witness the end of that story. By Sunday, tickets were being hawked online for as much as $5,000.

Near the Obamas’ red brick Georgian, not far from the University of Chicago, some wondered gloomily whether his legacy might now be erased by his successor, Donald J. Trump, who received just 12 percent of the vote in Chicago and only single-digit slivers in the wards near Mr. Obama’s house.

Would Chicago’s spin in the spotlight, complicated as it had been at times, be over now, too?

“I guess I feel sad,” said Antonio Coye, a barber at the Hyde Park Hair Salon, where the plain black chair Mr. Obama used to sit in for his trims is now preserved under glass. Not long ago, a crew of Lycra-clad bicyclists peered at the chair from the foyer of the small shop, where a line of men forms on Saturdays and “the Obama cut,” a professional-looking taper on the side and the back for $24, remains popular.

“This was really something unique that happened,” Mr. Coye said as he worked on a customer with a razor over the weekend. “It was the first time somebody really different became president, and he did a really good job. To me, the person in office after him is going to make his time in office stand out even more than it did already.”

Full-size tour buses, once an oddity, cruise down Hyde Park Boulevard with some frequency now. People can occasionally be seen pulling over with cameras outside a nondescript shopping center along 53rd Street, where an easy-to-overlook plaque notes the Obamas’ first date, during which Barack Obama bought Michelle Robinson ice cream from a Baskin-Robbins shop that has since become a Subway.

For a place that has not forgotten being called the Second City by a New Yorker writer long ago, Chicago had watched its standing, in the eyes of the coasts, rise along with Mr. Obama’s. Chicagoans were entrusted with important posts in Washington, and many of them, along with the first family, had roots on the South Side, rather than on the richer and whiter North Side.

At points during the eight-year term, Chicago voices seemed to be everywhere. Both Valerie Jarrett and David Axelrod, who is now back in Hyde Park at the Institute of Politics at the University of Chicago, were senior advisers. Chicago cabinet members included Arne Duncan (education) and Penny Pritzker (commerce). Austan Goolsbee, another Hyde Parker, was an economic adviser, and Desirée Rogers was an early White House social secretary. And Mr. Obama’s first-term chiefs of staff included William M. Daley, the brother of Chicago’s former mayor, and Rahm Emanuel, who was later elected mayor.

But it is not just the shutting of that pipeline that causes concern. In Mr. Obama’s old neighborhood, the notion that Mr. Trump was soon to step in left some speaking of the president’s farewell speech in terms more akin to a funeral than a celebration.

Many recalled watching an ebullient re-election evening here in 2012, when President Obama appeared at McCormick Place — a bookend, it now seems, to Tuesday night. Others recounted how they had felt as they watched his 2008 victory from Grant Park, the city’s downtown front yard along the lake, where he addressed thousands with the gleaming Chicago skyline as a backdrop.

“It was a magical moment — such a positive buzz all around,” said Kevin Elliott, a manager at 57th Street Books, an underground maze where Mr. Obama had held book signings and often visited before his election.

Even here, though, a few have questioned whether Mr. Obama did as much as he could during his time in office to solve urban problems of gang violence, joblessness and segregation. In Chicago, violence cascaded last year: More people, 762, were murdered in the president’s hometown in 2016 than in New York and Los Angeles combined. Some complained that Mr. Obama had not interceded forcefully enough.

“He was a community organizer here himself, and he should be embarrassed that he came in as president and the problems have actually worsened,” said Ja’Mal Green, a local activist.

But others, like Mr. Coye, the barber, noted that Mr. Obama was president of the United States, not of the South Side: “Who knows what happens now, but you can’t have expected him to solve this city’s violence.”

The Obamas intend to stay in Washington while their younger daughter finishes high school, but many residents here believe that they might never return to the house on Greenwood Avenue. He is building his presidential library in Chicago, many say, and that is just fine.

“No, he’s not coming back, and he shouldn’t, either — he couldn’t go anywhere without being recognized,” said Stephanie Crouse, 53, a school bus driver eating her lunch from a tray at Valois, a Hyde Park cafeteria Mr. Obama once frequented.

“This is like your kids,” she added. “He’s done his thing. He did what he could. And you’re sending him off now to graduate and move up and go off to better things.”