LOGAN, W.Va. — The devastating explosion in the Upper Big Branch coal mine killed 29 men in 2010 and scarred West Virginia like few events in modern memory. Don Blankenship, the head of the mining company, went to prison over it.

Not many people would call that a springboard for a career in politics.

Yet when Mr. Blankenship emerged last year from his one-year sentence for conspiracy to violate mine safety laws, rather than express remorse or contrition over the tragedy, he announced a run for the United States Senate, in a state where coal has been as much a cultural identity as an economic one.

His return to the public eye has reawakened painful memories in West Virginia, especially for relatives of the disaster’s victims. “You took 29 lives away from families like mine,” said Judy Jones Petersen in an interview, as if she were addressing Mr. Blankenship. Her brother, Dean Jones, was killed in the disaster. “Shame on you for coming back,” she said.

At one of Mr. Blankenship’s meet-and-greet events with voters, a knot of protesters held signs: “You must be joking.”

But in the coal fields, many people don’t think his candidacy is a joke at all. He has found support there for his claim to be a victim himself, pursued unfairly by federal prosecutors and mine safety inspectors. He brazenly calls himself a former “political prisoner.”

“They railroaded him,” said Steve Blair, a retiree who worked in mines run by Mr. Blankenship when he was the chief executive of the Massey Energy Company, once the largest coal producer in central Appalachia. “The federal government turned everybody loose to testify against him, just to get rid of him.”

Mr. Blair, 61, wearing a West Virginia University cap, forked up his steak and eggs at a Bob Evans restaurant recently in Logan. The town, once a Democratic stronghold, is emblematic of how vehemently voters in Appalachia have rejected the national party: Mr. Blair voted for Barack Obama in 2008, but four years later, the sitting president lost the Democratic primary in Logan County to a protest candidate in a Texas prison.

A burly man who is certain in his views, Mr. Blair had a ready explanation for the long decline of the coal industry. “One word: Obama,” he said. “I was put out of business by Obama.”

Mr. Blankenship claims that the federal government, not the coal company, is to blame for the explosion at the Upper Big Branch mine near Montcoal, W.Va. Investigators found no evidence to support his claims, but he is running for office in an era of nationwide voter credulity for conspiracy theories.

And his candidacy is unfolding in a state where many people embrace a sense of persecution over coal’s decline. Economists say that a host of factors are responsible, chiefly the abundance of cheap natural gas, which has undercut coal in the energy marketplace. But that is not what many West Virginians choose to hear.

“What hurt coal was the Obama administration and nothing else,” said Denny Harton, a retired business owner who introduced Mr. Blankenship recently at one of his rallies.

Dianne Dewey White, chairwoman of the Republican Party of Logan County, said thousands of miners who once looked to Mr. Blankenship for work are likely to support him now. “You wouldn’t believe what good parties they had, and what times they had,” she said. “They spent a lot of good years with him. People don’t forget that.”

Coal barons like Mr. Blankenship used to be despised in Logan County, a rugged region in southern West Virginia. The Battle of Blair Mountain happened here in 1921, when miners seeking to unionize clashed with a private army fielded by mine owners, and more than 50 people died.

But as West Virginia has become a deep-red state, the sympathies of many mine families have shifted from unions to mine operators, who are portrayed as job creators.

“I have heard people say, ‘When Don was in charge, we always worked,’” said R. Booth Goodwin II, who prosecuted Mr. Blankenship as a United States attorney and then ran for governor unsuccessfully in 2016. “The coal industry is still perpetuating a lie that coal mining is coming back, and it’s going to be just like it was before, when all objective evidence is to the contrary,” he said.

Mr. Blankenship, 67, is up against two more conventional candidates — Attorney General Patrick Morrisey and Representative Evan Jenkins — in the Republican primary in May. He said he is prepared to spend whatever it takes on the race, and his pockets are deep: In his last years at Massey Energy, he was reportedly paid $38.2 million. Opponents who once dismissed his candidacy now see him as a credible threat in the Trump era, positioned to appeal to many West Virginians’ resentment of elites of any kind.

“There’s a pride in the state, deep inside, that comes from people dumping on it so long,” said an aide to Senator Joe Manchin III, the Democratic incumbent who will face the winner of the Republican primary in November.

Mr. Manchin once said that Mr. Blankenship “has blood on his hands” because of Upper Big Branch, the worst mining disaster in the United States in 40 years. Some West Virginians speculate that Mr. Blankenship is running to pursue a vendetta against Mr. Manchin, who was governor at the time the mine exploded. Although Mr. Manchin is the most conservative Democrat in the Senate, he is still expected to face a tough re-election race in the state, where Donald J. Trump won 68 percent of the vote in 2016.

Mr. Blankenship dismisses talk of a vendetta. “If I wanted to get Senator Manchin, I’d just go out and slam him, like he did me, put national TV ads on,” he said in an interview. “I’m trying to win an election.”

Through a spokesman, Mr. Manchin declined to be interviewed. “Out of respect for our coal miners and their families who are still grieving the loss of their loved ones, I will not comment on Don Blankenship,’’ he said in a statement. “West Virginians know the facts, and the jury has spoken.”

Mr. Blankenship was convicted of a misdemeanor count of conspiracy in 2015 after the jury heard that federal safety inspectors had written hundreds of safety violations for the Upper Big Branch mine, and former miners described unsafe conditions there.

On the campaign trail, Mr. Blankenship charges that “the Obama government blew up the Upper Big Branch mine.” He maintains that the explosion happened because federal inspectors had ordered the company to install an ineffective ventilation system.

None of the several investigations conducted by state, federal and independent authorities support Mr. Blankenship’s theory on the mine disaster. Instead, investigators found that mine management failed to prevent a combustible buildup of coal dust, which was ignited by faulty machinery to create a fireball.

After completing his prison time at the Taft Correctional Institution in California, Mr. Blankenship declared in court papers that his primary residence was in Las Vegas. The car that brought him to a recent appearance in Parkersburg, W.Va., was a luxury BMW sedan with Tennessee plates.

To many relatives of the miners who were killed, his re-emergence in coal country is a source of bitter pain.

Gary and Patty Quarles, who are raising a grandson after their son, Gary Wayne Quarles, was killed at Upper Big Branch, described their anguish at watching Mr. Blankenship’s TV ads, titled “For the Sake of Coal Miners.”

“We’re sitting here in our living room with our grandson, and there he sets up on TV — that’s sickening,” said Mr. Quarles, who also worked in Massey Energy coal mines. “Don can say what he wants to about safety and doing all this and that for miners — there was no safety in Massey coal. None whatever.”

“All they know is to lie, cheat and outlaw,” he added.

At a barbershop on Main Street in Logan, the county seat, customers with ties to mining tended to react negatively to Mr. Blankenship’s candidacy, while the barber, Chad Browning, was studiedly neutral. “Coal is king in this county,” said Mr. Browning, 45. “There’s nothing else here.”

In his shop in the former bus station, a haircut is $10 and a poster for a Kiwanis pancake breakfast is taped to the mirror. The street outside is a shadowy canyon of tired brick buildings, with a tattoo parlor nearby and a pawnshop offering “Loans, Guns, Ammo.” Only one UPS truck stops to make deliveries on Main Street these days, Mr. Browning said, where once there were three.

The UPS driver, Mike Workman, 46, the son of a coal miner, watched Mr. Browning apply hot lather to a customer and shave his neck with a straight razor.

Mr. Workman lamented how the conflict over coal, between protecting jobs and protecting the environment, had become so bitter. “It’s a political war, but to us it’s not a political war — we’re just trying to make a living,” he said. “I don’t think there’s nobody in West Virginia that wants to see the streams tainted. I’m a fisherman and a hunter. We love this area. This is where our kids play. We drink the water here.”

He said he could not vote for Mr. Blankenship. “I’ve had family in the mining industry; they know that he puts production above safety,” he said.

In the barber’s chair, Bob Lucas, 52, who works in a coal processing plant, said he could not support Mr. Blankenship, either. Mr. Lucas was once an electrician at a Massey-owned mine, where he said he was asked to take shortcuts that would compromise safety. Rather than do that, he said, he quit the job.

Mr. Lucas said the mine’s managers lived in fear of a visit from Mr. Blankenship, who would descend on the site by helicopter. “When Don flew in, they were terrified,” he said.

WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. — The two women, once adversaries, embraced like best friends, calling each other “inspiring” and “amazing” and “my girl.”

They clasped hands and worked a stage surrounded by more than 10,000 roaring supporters, waving and pressing the flesh as a team. Their past rivalry appeared all but forgotten, or at least overshadowed by the stakes of a presidential race.

In their first joint campaign appearance on Thursday, Michelle Obama and Hillary Clinton made a public show of sisterhood and mutual admiration as the current first lady, a star on the campaign trail, sought to use her soaring popularity to boost the former first lady into the Oval Office.

“There are some folks out there who are commenting that it is unprecedented for a sitting first lady to be so actively engaged in a presidential campaign, and that may be true,” said Mrs. Obama, a reluctant campaigner who has nevertheless emerged in recent weeks as Mrs. Clinton’s most compelling surrogate.

“But what is also true is that this is truly an unprecedented election, and that’s why I’m out here,” Mrs. Obama added, arguing that Donald J. Trump, the Republican nominee, was working to discourage people in the crowd from voting by making “this election so dirty and ugly that we don’t want any part of it.”

Mrs. Clinton’s campaign has deployed Mrs. Obama extensively over the past several weeks in competitive states like North Carolina, working to capitalize on her reputation to stoke enthusiasm and turnout particularly among women, African-Americans and young people. Her approval rating in August was 64 percent, more than 10 points better than President Obama’s, according to a Gallup tracking poll at the time. Mrs. Clinton’s current approval rating is 43 percent.

The contrast between the two women could not be sharper, although both are Ivy League-educated lawyers who lived through two terms as first lady, a role freighted with expectations, riddled with pitfalls and devoid of real power. The two bonded on Thursday over the shared experience, not always pleasant.

“I’m going to state the obvious: It’s not easy, you’ve got so many people counting on you, you’ve got the eyes of the world on you,” Mrs. Clinton said. “Let’s be real — as our nation’s first African-American first lady, she’s faced pressures I never did, and she’s handled them with pure grace.”

Mrs. Obama has used her popularity to prosecute a case against Mr. Trump. She began in New Hampshire this month when she spoke in personal terms about the toll his campaign’s tone has taken on her and women across the country. “Enough is enough,” she said.

Their pairing on Thursday made for a tableau impossible to imagine eight years ago when Mr. Obama was engaged in a battle with Mrs. Clinton for the Democratic nomination. But on Thursday in the center of a large arena, the first black first lady stood beside the former first lady who is seeking to break yet another historic barrier by becoming the first woman to be president, making common cause against Mr. Trump.

“It doesn’t get any better than being here with our most amazing first lady,” Mrs. Clinton told a packed hall here at Wake Forest University. Comparing Mrs. Obama to the author and poet Maya Angelou, Mrs. Clinton called the first lady “another woman whose voice we need now more than ever.”

“I wish I didn’t have to say this, but indeed, dignity and respect for women and girls is also on the ballot in this election,” Mrs. Clinton said, “and I want to thank our first lady for her eloquent, powerful defense of that basic value.”

Starting with a prime-time speech at the Democratic National Convention in July, Mrs. Obama — who has done little to hide her distaste for campaign politics — has become an invaluable asset for Mrs. Clinton. Her phrase denouncing the personal attacks of the campaign — “When they go low, we go high” — has turned into a favorite call-and-response that her audiences recite rapturously, similar to Mr. Obama’s “Fired up? Ready to go!” chant in his 2008 campaign.

“Casting our vote is the ultimate way that we go high when they go low,” Mrs. Obama said again on Thursday.

As the first lady has become a louder voice in the campaign, Mr. Trump has tried to call attention to the friction that once existed between Mrs. Obama and Mrs. Clinton. One of his tactics has been to resurrect an eight-year-old comment the first lady made during the 2008 primaries.

“Our view was that if you can’t run your own house,” Mrs. Obama said at the time, “you certainly can’t run the White House.” The remark was interpreted by some as a veiled dig at Mrs. Clinton that was meant to refer to Bill Clinton’s sexual indiscretions. The Obamas insisted then that it was a comment about their own family, seeking to explain how they balanced politics with the raising of their daughters.

“So we’ve adjusted our schedules to make sure that our girls are first,” Mrs. Obama immediately added.

Still, Mr. Trump called attention to the statement in a posting on Twitter on Sunday, and his supporters have raised it each time Mrs. Obama praises Mrs. Clinton.

On Thursday, both women sought to make it clear they were allies.

“Seriously, is there anybody more inspiring than Michelle Obama?” Mrs. Clinton said.

Mrs. Obama said she had been caught off guard by Mrs. Clinton’s effusive, 23-minute introduction.

“It’s kind of throwing me a little bit,” she stammered. “Very generous.”

“It takes a level of generosity of spirit to do what Hillary has done in her career and in her life for our family, for this nation,” Mrs. Obama said. “If people wonder, yes, Hillary Clinton is my friend.”

She said voters should be “out there working your hearts out for my girl.”

“Hillary doesn’t play,” Mrs. Obama said. “She has more experience and exposure to the presidency than any candidate in our lifetime — yes, more than Barack, more than Bill — so she is absolutely ready to be commander in chief on Day 1. And yes, she happens to be a woman.”

On Thursday, Mrs. Clinton tried to tap into Mrs. Obama’s Everywoman appeal, pledging to “take good care” of the kitchen garden she has planted at the White House, and speaking, as Mrs. Obama often does, about what it was like to raise a daughter there.

She even complimented Mrs. Obama’s dance moves, drawing a little boogie from the first lady, seated beside her.

“I mean, wow,” Mrs. Clinton said.

LORAIN, Ohio — President Trump’s decree placing punitive tariffs on foreign steel raised an outcry in Washington: Republican leaders in Congress warned darkly of a market-rattling trade war. Many Democrats echoed their discomfort, saying Mr. Trump’s broad edict threatened global commerce.

But Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, offered unreserved applause. Having lobbied the administration in public letters and private meetings to go after Chinese steel imports, he hailed Mr. Trump’s announcement Thursday as a breakthrough. “For far too long,” he said in a statement, “Chinese cheating has shuttered steel plants across our state and put Ohioans out of work.”

If Mr. Brown was a rare supportive voice on tariffs in Congress, his stance was more familiar at home. A veteran critic of pacts like the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mr. Brown, with his limited embrace of Mr. Trump, reflected the political culture of the industrial Midwest and the survival strategy he has pioneered for Democrats there. The president captured Ohio by a resounding margin in 2016, defeating Hillary Clinton by eight percentage points while winning narrowly in neighboring Pennsylvania and Michigan. Democrats now hold only one high office in Ohio — Mr. Brown’s.

As Mr. Brown seeks a third term in 2018, it is his brand of indignant populism setting the tone for Democrats in Ohio, where the governorship and several congressional seats are also up for grabs. Long a crucial swing state, Ohio may now be the most vital proving ground for a progressive economic message in Trump country. Democrats there have adopted a rallying cry that echoes both Mr. Trump’s rhetoric and traditional union-hall populism, assailing Wall Street banks and multinational corporations for exploiting workers and accusing Washington of colluding in their perfidy.

Amplifying that appeal, Democratic leaders have settled on Richard A. Cordray, the former director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, as their favored candidate for governor. Mr. Cordray, a former state attorney general who played a high-profile watchdog role in Washington, has drawn forceful support in a Democratic primary from unions like the Ohio Federation of Teachers and the Ohio A.F.L.-C.I.O., as well as Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who devised the bank regulating agency Mr. Cordray led.

Unlike endangered Senate Democrats in deeper-red states, Mr. Brown, 65, has opposed virtually all Republican-backed policies in Congress, including a new measure loosening bank regulations that is supported by a dozen Democratic senators. Outside of trade, Mr. Brown said in an interview, he sees no evidence that Mr. Trump “stands with workers.” But the senator mainly fixed his criticism on a specific target — “interest groups and Wall Street influences in Washington.”

“The Republican establishment has captured the government,” Mr. Brown said. “When it comes to what they’re really trying to do every day, it’s the bidding of the billionaire Republican establishment — of Wall Street, of the drug companies, of the gun lobby.”

Both national parties have a great deal at stake in Ohio. For Republicans, the 2018 elections are a test of their ascendancy across the Midwest, and whether Mr. Trump’s appeal to working-class white voters might lift others on the right. He carried a majority of union households in Ohio, sundering the on-and-off alliance of African-American voters with white union members that has periodically delivered the state to Democrats.

Ohio Republicans are fielding a formidable if somewhat ungainly ticket, mimicking the national partnership of old-school Republicans and Trump-style insurgents. The state party has backed Mike DeWine, a low-key former senator who is Ohio’s attorney general, for governor, and Representative Jim Renacci, a more combative Trump ally, for Senate. Mr. Renacci, a wealthy auto dealer, had been battling Mr. DeWine for the nomination for governor, but switched to the Senate race after an appeal from the White House.

Among national Democrats, Ohio is an urgent priority for reasons both symbolic and practical. Victories in 2018 could help them contest the state in 2020, and winning the governorship could give Democrats a hand in the drawing of congressional maps. Prominent Democratic leaders are already sketching out visits. Ms. Warren has raised money with Mr. Brown and plans to campaign for Mr. Cordray, and former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. has committed to hosting a fund-raising event for Mr. Brown soon, and will campaign extensively in Ohio next fall, people briefed on their plans said.

For Democrats like Ms. Warren and Mr. Biden, the state is an inviting arena to deliver a more pointed message on economic inequality than the one Democrats are likely to deploy in the areas most crucial to control of the House. In their quest to pick up 24 seats, congressional Democrats have focused heavily on courting moderate, suburban voters who dislike Mr. Trump, and for whom issues like trade and union rights are remote considerations.

But Michael Podhorzer, political director of the national A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that in Ohio, the Democrats’ paramount goal had to be reversing the lurch of working-class whites toward the Republican Party. He said union members have edged away from Mr. Trump in polling conducted by labor groups, but Democrats must overcome skepticism that they “are real on populist issues.”

“It’s a state that is very suspicious of Democrats on economic issues,” Mr. Podhorzer said. “How things turn out is going to be a real indicator of whether Ohio’s going to be a battleground state in 2020.”

The Democrats’ determination to reassemble a blue-collar coalition was on display recently in Lorain, a once industrial town about 30 miles west of Cleveland, where Mr. Cordray, 58, pitched himself to a crowd of labor officials arrayed in wooden chairs in a fluorescent-lit hall. Mr. Trump fought Mrs. Clinton to a draw in Lorain County in 2016; President Barack Obama carried it by about 15 points in 2012.

Introduced to the crowd as a warrior against Wall Street, Mr. Cordray called the governorship a platform to “fight back for working people” and pledged to battle the Republican-controlled Legislature on union rights and defend Ohio’s still-contested Medicaid expansion. In an interview, he said Democrats had erred in 2016 by allowing themselves to be seen as a party of the status quo.

“People do want somebody who will fight for them,” said Mr. Cordray, who vowed to compete not just in big cities, but also in the “middle-sized towns around Ohio where they feel things moving gradually away from them and nobody seems to care.”

A soft-spoken lawyer, Mr. Cordray acknowledged that he had to reintroduce himself to Ohio after seven years in the Obama administration. In a sign of his campaign’s national import, Mr. Cordray met with Mr. Obama in Washington late last fall, after stepping down from the consumer bureau. Mr. Cordray said the former president had been “encouraging” of his campaign.

Mr. Obama has not yet issued an endorsement, and while several Democrats have dropped out of the race to back Mr. Cordray, he must overcome a rowdy set of Democratic rivals in a May primary election. The former Representative Dennis Kucinich, 71, a freewheeling firebrand who has aligned himself at times with both Mr. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, appears to be his most nettlesome foe.

Republicans, however, are girding for Mr. Cordray. Mr. DeWine, still facing a challenger on the right, has begun swiping at Mr. Cordray, lumping him with a cadre of Democrats that he says mismanaged the state. Wagering that Ohioans are mostly happy with the state’s direction, Mr. DeWine is presenting himself as a steady hand.

“We can’t go back to the days of Ted Strickland and Richard Cordray,” Mr. DeWine warned last month at a local party dinner in Clinton County, northeast of Cincinnati, linking Mr. Cordray with an unpopular former governor.

But Mr. DeWine, 71, also allowed in an interview that Ohioans remain restless even after years of Republican dominance. “There’s still a feeling of dissatisfaction, I think, with government,” he said, adding that the mood had helped elect Mr. Trump.

Whether Mr. Trump can again bend that dissatisfaction to Republicans’ advantage could seal their prospects in Ohio. In the Senate race, Mr. Renacci, 59, has staked his campaign on his relationship with the president and attacked Mr. Brown for opposing Mr. Trump’s tax cuts. Both he and the president, Mr. Renacci said in an interview, “want to make sure Ohio is great again.”

But the tangled lines of populist politics could complicate that blunt partisan argument: Where Mr. Brown endorsed the Trump tariffs, Mr. Renacci has been more equivocal, calling them a work in progress.

At a union hall in Dayton last month, Mr. Brown found an audience seemingly friendly both to Mr. Trump and his own campaign. Addressing a Teamsters local about the union’s pension crisis, Mr. Brown was introduced by a pair of labor activists who borrowed from the president’s message to suggest Washington had overlooked them in favor of other vulnerable groups. “We’re dreamers, too,” declared Rita Lewis, a prominent Teamsters activist who is close to Mr. Brown. “We’re not illegal aliens. We’re American citizens.”

Mr. Brown addressed the group in a confiding tone, hunched over a lectern and upbraiding Washington for siding too often with banks over workers. As Mr. Brown worked the crowd afterward, Greg Thompson, a Teamsters member from Akron, explained that he voted for Mr. Trump because of his stance on trade, but these days considered Mr. Brown a more reliable ally.

“I don’t know what to think of the president,” said Mr. Thompson, 69. “He talks out of both sides of his mouth.”

As for Mr. Brown, Mr. Thompson said, “We’re 100 percent behind him.”