(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• President Obama’s vision.

In his final State of the Union address, President Obama pointed to a resurgent economy and to the nation’s improved standing in the world, despite inequality at home and terrorism abroad.

And he accepted responsibility for falling short of transforming Washington and politics itself. Here are highlights and the full transcript of his speech.

Today, Mr. Obama visits an Omaha high school teacher who wrote him a letter a year ago asking what kind of world her newborn son would face. He hopes to spend much of the next year in conversation with citizens outside Washington, an aide said.

• The next State of the Union.

The talk in the hallways of the Capitol on Tuesday night was about who might give the next address.

A Times/CBS News poll finds that Hillary Clinton’s lead over Bernie Sanders in the Democratic race has dwindled.

And Ted Cruz, facing criticism from Donald J. Trump over his Canadian birth, is suggesting that Mr. Trump is catering to Democrats.

Here’s how Democratic and Republican primary voters answered the poll.

• Iran lets U.S. sailors go.

Iran released two U.S. Navy patrol boats and 10 crew members who were described as “trespassing” in Iranian waters, state news media said today.

The episode came just days before a nuclear deal is carried out, under which the U.S. is to unfreeze $100 billion in Iranian assets.

• At the Supreme Court.

The justices hear arguments today in a case brought by the families of Americans killed in terrorist attacks sponsored by Iran.

The families seek to collect almost $2 billion seized from Iran’s central bank.

• Following the money trail.

The Treasury Department said today that it would begin identifying and tracking secret buyers of luxury properties.

It’s the first time the government has required real estate companies to disclose names behind all-cash transactions, made by shell companies that often shield purchasers’ identities.

• Millions away from home.

The U.N. estimates that 244 million people, or 3.3 percent of the world’s population, live in a country other than the one where they were born.

But many others cannot leave. The U.N. humanitarian coordinator for Syria says that some residents of Madaya resemble “skeletons that are now barely moving.”

• Water crisis in Flint, Mich.

National Guard troops could begin arriving in the city today to distribute water filters and bottled water to residents with lead-tainted drinking water.

Flint’s problems began after the city switched its water source from Lake Huron to the Flint River in 2014 as part of a cost-cutting plan.

• Largest. Jackpot. Ever.

At $1.5 billion, tonight’s Powerball drawing is the largest lottery jackpot in U.S. history. No other has ever broken the $1 billion mark.

It’s difficult to win, but if you do, you probably shouldn’t take the lump-sum payout. Here are other myths and misconceptions.

BUSINESS

• Wall Street stocks are falling. Most global stock indexes are up today, though Shanghai’s closed down 2.4 percent.

• General Electric said today that it would move its headquarters to Boston from Connecticut, to be near its cluster of research universities, for knowledge and recruiting.

NOTEWORTHY

• Pro football’s homecoming.

The St. Louis Rams will return to the Los Angeles area this fall, with the San Diego Chargers possibly in tow, N.F.L. owners decided Tuesday night.

The Raiders are expected to stay in Oakland, Calif, and to renew negotiations with the city over a new stadium.

• Fight over Picasso sculpture.

The art dealer Larry Gagosian and the royal family of Qatar both believe Picasso’s plaster bust of his muse Marie-Thérèse Walter is theirs.

In both cases, the seller was Picasso’s daughter Maya Widmaier-Picasso.

• For sale: pleasure palace.

The Playboy Mansion is on the market for $200 million, one of the highest asking prices for a private home in the U.S.

• Stop those salamanders!

Aiming to stop a deadly fungus from driving native salamander species extinct, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is making it illegal to import or move across state lines 201 species of the amphibian.

• In memoriam.

Monte Irvin was one of the first outstanding black players in the major leagues in the 1940s, but he spent most of his prime years in the Negro leagues, waiting for baseball’s color barrier to be broken. He died on Monday at 96.

BACK STORY

It took more than 100 years after the Civil War for an African-American to join the presidential cabinet, and even longer for one to be elected governor. Both milestones happened on this day.

Robert C. Weaver was appointed secretary of housing and urban development by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966, and L. Douglas Wilder took the oath of office as governor in Richmond, Va., in 1990.

Weaver, who had three Harvard degrees, was the great-grandson of a slave and an expert strategist in the civil rights movement. “Fight hard and legally,” he said, “and don’t blow your top.”

His government service began during the New Deal, when he tried to harness benefits for blacks from the domestic spending programs. Weaver has been followed by 19 other African-Americans in the cabinet.

Mr. Wilder, a grandson of slaves, won the governorship in the onetime capital of the Confederacy with 50.19 percent of the vote. History was made only after a recount.

His margin of victory lagged far behind those of his Democratic running mates, suggesting that many Democrats did not vote for him.

Only one other African-American has been elected governor of a state: Deval Patrick, a Democrat who led Massachusetts from 2007 to 2015.

Victoria Shannon contributed reporting.

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated on the web all morning.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can sign up here to get the briefing delivered to your inbox.

WASHINGTON — He boasted about it at a banquet given by the Communist president of Vietnam. He crowed about it during a pep rally for anti-abortion marchers in the Rose Garden. He even slipped it into his Thanksgiving Day greeting to American troops serving abroad.

No president has taken more delight, or claimed more credit, for the roaring stock market than Donald J. Trump. The Dow Jones industrial average has become for him what the Rasmussen Poll was during the 2016 presidential election: a daily source of validation.

“Had the other side gotten in, the market would have gone down 50 percent from where it was,” Mr. Trump told a gathering of women at the White House last week, diplomatically avoiding the name Hillary Clinton. “Remember that.”

Now, though, Mr. Trump’s fixation with Wall Street is colliding with one of his most cherished legislative projects — a more protectionist trade policy — and it is not clear which one will win.

Mr. Trump, for example, has repeatedly threatened to pull the United States out of the North American Free Trade Agreement and the Korea Free Trade Agreement. But two top economic advisers, Gary D. Cohn and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, have warned him that withdrawing from those deals would hurt the stock market, several officials said.

Tellingly, those threats have receded. On Wednesday, at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, Mr. Trump’s commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross, expressed optimism that the United States would be able to renegotiate the deal with Canada and Mexico.

The president himself is scheduled to speak in Davos on Friday, and Mr. Cohn promised that his message would reassure the market makers who flock there every January. “America first is not America alone,” he said. “When we grow, the world grows; when the world grows, we grow. We’re part of it, and we’re part of a world economy.”

And yet other people briefed by the White House said they expected Mr. Trump to use the occasion to deliver a defiantly nationalist speech. While Mr. Ross was conciliatory about Nafta, he also said that “U.S. troops are now coming to the ramparts” to wage other potential trade wars, including with China. Those remarks briefly rattled markets.

Presidents have generally avoided talking about the stock market — for good reasons. Their words have the power to move markets, and not always in the direction they want. Moreover, if they claim credit for a bull market, they find it harder to evade blame for a bear market.

In March 2009, President Barack Obama made a foray into market analysis during an appearance with Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain. The stock market, he said, is “sort of like a tracking poll in politics.”

“It bobs up and down day to day, and if you spend all your time worrying about that, then you’re probably going to get the long-term strategy wrong,” he said.

At the same time, he observed, stocks had fallen so far after the financial crisis that their price-to-earnings ratios were nearing their bottom. Given that, and the government’s enormous fiscal stimulus program, Mr. Obama said it might be a good time to get back into the market.

“He got substantial blowback for those comments and was advised — and took the advice — not to prognosticate on the market again,” said Jason Furman, who was one of Mr. Obama’s economic advisers.

For all the mocking he got, Mr. Furman noted that Mr. Obama was right. The stock market bottomed out six days after his remarks and had bounced back 21 percent a month later. Mr. Obama mentioned the market several other times during his presidency, but Mr. Furman said he stayed away from commenting on day-to-day gyrations.

President Bill Clinton also presided over a bubbly stock market but resisted the urge to gloat about it. Former aides said he was repeatedly invited to ring the bell at the New York Stock Exchange to open trading, but they always told him to decline. That reluctance proved wise when the bubble in technology stocks began bursting almost a year before Mr. Clinton left office.

“We had a view that markets could go up, markets could go down, markets could be overvalued, markets could be undervalued,” said Gene Sperling, an economic adviser to Mr. Clinton. “But it would take your eye off the ball to focus on that rather than on the real economy.”

Not that these presidents or their aides are shy about their contributions to the market: Mr. Sperling said Mr. Clinton’s 1993 budget plan, and the ensuing decline in long-term interest rates, helped power the bull market of the 1990s. Even with the bursting of the tech bubble, he said, investors were way ahead at the end of the Clinton years.

But all of them, said Robert Dallek, a presidential historian, were mindful that what goes up can come down. Mr. Dallek, who recently published a biography of Franklin D. Roosevelt, noted that Roosevelt rarely talked about the stock market, which rose steadily during his presidency until 1937, when the Federal Reserve abruptly tightened the money supply — one of the factors that plunged the United States into recession.

“All these presidents have paid attention to the stock market,” Mr. Dallek said. “But he finds it irresistible, if finds any sign of strength in his administration, that he is going to seize on that and publicize it.”

No president has tied his fortunes so directly to the market as has Mr. Trump. “We’re setting a record literally all the time,” he said last week. “And I’m telling you, we have a long way to go.”

Sometimes, Mr. Trump does not even wait for the market to open to claim victory. Before the opening bell in New York on Nov. 29, he tweeted, “Looks like another great day for the Stock Market. Consumer Confidence is at a Record High. I guess somebody likes me (my policies)!”

The Dow Jones industrial average closed 104 points higher that day.

WASHINGTON — With a booming speech at the Golden Globe Awards on Sunday night, Oprah Winfrey, the billionaire media entrepreneur and former television talk-show host, launched a thousand fantasies for Democrats: Of a historic campaign to put a black woman in the White House. Of a celebrity candidate, known for her big-hearted optimism, taking on a reality-show president defined by his thirst for combat. Of a presidency, some joked, where everybody would get a car.

Ms. Winfrey’s longtime partner, Stedman Graham, stoked the mood in a newspaper interview, suggesting to The Los Angeles Times that she would “absolutely do it” — with the caveat that such matters are “up to the people.”

There was no more official signal on Monday from Ms. Winfrey, 63, as to her interest in the presidency. She has disavowed any ambition to be a candidate in the past, though she has told associates in recent months that she wants to play a part in bringing the country together, two people briefed on her thinking said.

If Ms. Winfrey’s ambitions are unclear, the sometimes giddy reaction to her speech at a Hollywood awards dinner underscored the unfulfilled hunger among Democrats for a larger-than-life leader to challenge President Trump.

With no obvious front-runner for the 2020 campaign, Democrats appear likely to spend the next few years grinding through internal disagreements over policy and identity in a long contest for the nomination. There are thorny disagreements in the party about how bluntly liberal its agenda should be, how boldly to confront Mr. Trump and how to balance the task of turning out core Democratic voters with the desire to win over disaffected Republicans and independents.

In the imagination of some Democrats, Ms. Winfrey might offer an easy way out of those problems. She inspires crucial groups for the party — women and African-Americans — and alienates few. She has cast herself in American culture as an avatar of optimism, not defined in ideological terms. Having made a career out of preaching the values of empowerment and inclusion, she represents in some ways a natural counterpoint to Mr. Trump’s proud pugilism. Senior Democrats in Washington said on Monday they had received no signal from Ms. Winfrey that she hoped to seek the White House.

David Axelrod, the former chief strategist for Barack Obama, said Ms. Winfrey was a figure of unique political potential, with “a boundless capacity for empathy and a preternatural ability to communicate powerfully and authentically — as we saw at the Golden Globes.”

Mr. Axelrod questioned, however, whether Ms. Winfrey would be the right fit for 2020: “Would she want to submit herself to the unforgiving, relentless and sometimes absurd process of running for president?” he wondered, adding: “Will there be hunger in 2020 for someone with some experience in government, after Trump?”

Some Democrats expressed skepticism and even frustration about the swirl of fascination with Ms. Winfrey, arguing that the party was jumping the gun with fevered speculation about 2020. Senator Brian Schatz of Hawaii, a young liberal in the chamber, wrote tersely on Twitter: “Hey. Let’s focus on winning in 2018. Thanks.”

Rebecca Katz, a Democratic strategist from the party’s progressive wing, said it would be a mistake for Democrats to rush toward a magnetic personality rather than hashing out a compelling agenda for the midterm elections and beyond.

“Beating Trump isn’t just about finding the right candidate — we have to show what we stand for,” Ms. Katz said. “Other than ‘we all get a car,’ what will an Oprah presidency look like?” she added, referring to when Ms. Winfrey famously gave a car to every audience member at her show. 

Ms. Winfrey’s sudden prominence in the nation’s political imagination speaks, in some respects, to the merging of politics and entertainment in the American mind. She has occupied a singular role in the television industry, parlaying roles as a local news anchor and a talk-show host in Chicago into a media empire that includes her own cable network and a fortune estimated at close to $3 billion. Gallup polling regularly finds Ms. Winfrey among the country’s most admired women, alongside Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama.

Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, suggested — with a dose of skepticism — that Ms. Winfrey was the kind of political outsider Democrats might embrace.

Alluding to Mr. Trump’s lack of experience, Ms. Pelosi tartly told a small group of reporters that Ms. Winfrey had other qualities going for her: “Oprah has read books. She knows how to identify talent.”

“If we’re going into a place where they are devaluing experience in terms of substance and legislative acumen and stuff like that,” Ms. Pelosi said, “you might as well have somebody who knows what they don’t know and would get the best possible people there.”

Ms. Winfrey’s commercial reach transcends race and income level, analysts say, propelling so many books and products to overnight success that it has earned its own sobriquet: “The Oprah Effect.” In 2015, Ms. Winfrey bought a 10 percent stake in Weight Watchers and assumed a position on the company’s board, a move that instantly doubled the company’s sluggish share price and added $400 million to its market value.

Other investments have eluded that Midas touch. Ms. Winfrey’s cable channel, OWN: The Oprah Winfrey Network, a joint venture with Discovery Communications Inc., initially struggled to gain traction and last year earned an average of 462,000 prime time viewers daily. In December, Discovery said it would take majority control of OWN, purchasing 24.5 percent of the channel for $70 million from Ms. Winfrey’s company, Harpo.

Ms. Winfrey’s most potent appeal, industry analysts say, is among somewhat older consumers — or perhaps, voters — with women over 55 as her strongest cohort. She is especially popular among African-American women and white suburban women, two groups Democrats will rely on in the 2018 and 2020 elections.

By Monday afternoon, the White House had responded to the threat of Oprah in 2020. “We welcome the challenge,” said Hogan Gidley, a spokesman for the president, “whether it be Oprah Winfrey or anybody else.”

But Ms. Winfrey has approached politics cautiously over the years, engaging highly selectively. In 2007, she intervened for Mr. Obama, holding rallies for him and hailing him as “the one.” And in 2013, she hosted a fund-raising event for Cory Booker, in his first bid for Senate in New Jersey.

During the 2016 campaign, Ms. Winfrey endorsed Mrs. Clinton but never ventured onto the campaign trail. Though Ms. Winfrey and her staff discussed a possible appearance with the Clinton campaign, none was ever scheduled. Ms. Winfrey’s aides cited her focus on righting her television network as the reason for her difficult schedule.

Minyon Moore, a Clinton adviser who communicated with the Winfrey team, said the campaign had been “delighted” to have Ms. Winfrey’s endorsement. Should Ms. Winfrey seek to assemble a campaign team for 2020, Ms. Moore said, “I suspect she would have her pick.”

Less certain is whether Ms. Winfrey could navigate the ideological pitfalls of a presidential campaign and give voice not just to broad themes, but actual policy prescriptions. While Ms. Winfrey has aligned herself generally with Democrats like Mr. Obama, her views on a range of issues from financial regulation to drone warfare are opaque. She drew criticism from the left last year after saying in an interview that she felt hopeful and believed Mr. Trump had been “humbled” after meeting with Mr. Obama during the presidential transition.

Alixandria Lapp, a strategist helping lead Democrats’ effort to retake the House, said the profile of a media mogul outsider would be an uncomfortable match for the party.

“I think it’s highly unlikely that Democrats will ever nominate our own version of Donald Trump — a celebrity with no government experience — because our party tends to respect government and governing experience,” Ms. Lapp said.

Ms. Winfrey has recently taken on political topics as a special correspondent for CBS News’s “60 Minutes,” including a segment on the country’s political divisions and another on the use of solitary confinement in prisons.

But even to close friends and admirers, the prospect of an Oprah 2020 race appeared far-fetched or impossible as recently as last year. After Mr. Trump’s inauguration, when the traditional barriers to entry into presidential politics appeared to melt away, Ms. Winfrey’s associates dismissed the idea.

A reporter who last March contacted Ms. Winfrey’s best friend, Gayle King of CBS News, got an emphatic reaction to the 2020 question.

“NOT A CHANCE!!!!!” Ms. King replied at the time, adding: “In caps for a reason.”

WASHINGTON — In November 2016, Dipayan Ghosh was still reeling from Hillary Clinton’s defeat as he left what was supposed to be a celebration party at the Javits Convention Center in New York to attend morning meetings for his job at the Washington offices of Facebook.

As Mr. Ghosh, a former White House technology adviser to President Barack Obama, made the four-hour drive, troubling questions started nagging him. What if fake news on Facebook and other sites had an impact on voters? How did the campaigns and any outsiders use ads on the site to influence the election?

A few months later, Mr. Ghosh quit his job at Facebook, where he worked on privacy and public policy issues. On Tuesday, a Washington think tank, New America, and Harvard’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy published a  report he co-wrote, asserting that technology behind digital advertising — the financial lifeblood of Facebook, Google and Twitter — has made disinformation campaigns more effective.

“The problems were much broader than we imagined, and it was not just about one tool or platform,” said Mr. Ghosh, who with his co-author, Ben Scott, worked on devising Mrs. Clinton’s tech policy platform. “It’s the profit model underlying the whole digital advertising system.”

Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott are the latest members of the political party that more eagerly embraced Silicon Valley to sharply criticize the tech industry. Tech policy officials from the Obama administration and from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign, as well as prominent Democrats in Congress, are demanding changes from companies they had long viewed as too important and nimble for regulations.

Senators Mark Warner of Virginia and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota are demanding greater disclosures from companies like Facebook, Google and Twitter for political advertising on their sites. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, who has big political backers from Silicon Valley, fears the biggest companies have edged out competition.

Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut has called for the Federal Trade Commission to restart an antitrust investigation into Google. And Representative Keith Ellison of Minnesota has introduced a bill that would update antitrust policies to take more direct aim at the tech sector.

“Democrats and progressives still strongly feel that there are shared values with Silicon Valley, but there is also a real concern over the industry’s increasingly concentrated wealth and power,” said Daniel Sepulveda, an ambassador and deputy assistant secretary at the State Department for the Obama administration.

Karen Kornbluh, who served as Mr. Obama’s ambassador to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, said that before the election, there was a view of “internet utopianism” in government. Officials looked to the internet to solve problems in education, income inequality and global democracy. They called on tech executives to help with those initiatives and hired from Google and other tech outfits to bring their expertise into the White House.

“So if you were championing the best things about the internet, it was easy to be disappointed that it was hijacked to subvert the very things it could foster,” Ms. Kornbluh said. But she said few people in government were looking with a full view of how social media and other internet services posed national security, economic and other risks.

Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott played a leading role in helping to create the tech-friendly policies that helped companies like Facebook and Google flourish during the Obama administration. But as more information trickled out about the role played by technology firms in Russia’s attempts to influence the presidential election, they, like many Democrats, became disillusioned.

“We were always careful to condition our optimism and our advocacy that this technology was potentially a double-edged sword,” said Mr. Scott, who is a senior adviser to the Open Technology Institute at New America. “But I guess we didn’t expect them to hit home quite as hard as it did.”

Titled “#DigitalDeceit: Exposing the Internet Technologies of Precision Propaganda,” their report argues that the interests of internet giants in helping advertisers run persuasive campaigns are aligned with those of someone looking to spread misinformation.

The authors suggest a few ways to regulate the advertising technology industry, including requiring more transparency for political advertising, restricting data collection or ad targeting on political issues, and strengthening consumer protection and competition policies.

Republicans have also expressed concerns about internet giants. Many on President Trump’s campaign suspected that Google rigged search results in favor of Mrs. Clinton, questioning the influence of high-profile supporters of hers like Eric Schmidt, who is the former executive chairman of Google’s parent company, Alphabet. They were outraged by claims that Facebook manipulated its trending topics feature to push down results related to Republicans.

But increasingly, the most vocal criticism is coming from Democrats. Tom Wheeler, Mr. Obama’s head of the Federal Communications Commission, recently called for social media firms to make it easier to figure out how certain information goes viral, who is sending those posts and what impact that activity may have.

“The internet was once heralded as the great democratizing tool,” Mr. Wheeler said. “That vision was smashed by the algorithms of the social media platforms.”

Last year, Google, Facebook and Twitter admitted that groups with ties to the Kremlin had used their online services to push false news stories or controversial headlines on divisive topics. In some cases, those groups amplified their reach by buying ads.

On Friday, Twitter said it had found more than 50,000 Russian-linked accounts tweeting election-related content in the 10 weeks preceding the vote. Twitter said it would email notifications to 677,775 people in the United States who followed, retweeted or liked tweets from accounts linked to propaganda efforts by the Internet Research Agency, a shadowy Russian company linked to the Kremlin.

But Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott said it would be a mistake to focus solely on the Russians. They argued that the tools used by the Russians could easily be applied to other misinformation campaigns. In the same way digital advertising campaigns spend relatively small sums of money to reach millions of people, any party with an interest in swaying sentiment can gain access to reams of behavioral data on the internet to target specific audiences.

Improvements in artificial intelligence for digital advertising could allow for more precise audience targeting and make the problem even worse, they said.

Fundamentally, the problem is that “disinformation campaigns and legitimate advertising campaigns are effectively indistinguishable on leading internet platforms, ” Mr. Ghosh and Mr. Scott wrote.

This month, Mr. Ghosh’s former employer, Facebook, announced changes to what its more than two billion members would see most often. The company said it would give what users’ friends and family shared priority over content from publishers and brands, with the goal of delivering a more positive experience on Facebook.

The changes were viewed as a response to the wave of criticism accusing the company of allowing its algorithms to promote misleading news and misinformation. On Friday, Facebook also said it would give priority to news sources that its users ranked as the most credible.

Mr. Ghosh said that these changes were significant and might throw off propagators of disinformation in the short term, but that they — like advertisers — would adjust. Ultimately, the underlying business model of digital advertising hasn’t changed, and it’s not clear how Facebook will handle content that advertisers pay to promote.

“I felt like Facebook was an amazing company, and in many ways I still think it is,” Mr. Ghosh said. “But something changed in me at the Javits Center.”

MILWAUKEE — Four barbers and a firefighter were pondering their future under a Trump presidency at the Upper Cutz barbershop last week.

“We got to figure this out,” said Cedric Fleming, one of the barbers. “We got a gangster in the chair now,” he said, referring to President-elect Donald J. Trump.

They admitted that they could not complain too much: Only two of them had voted. But there were no regrets.

“I don’t feel bad,” Mr. Fleming said, trimming a mustache. “Milwaukee is tired. Both of them were terrible. They never do anything for us anyway.”

As Democrats pick through the wreckage of the campaign, one lesson is clear: The election was notable as much for the people who did not show up, as for those who did. Nationally, about half of eligible voters did not cast ballots.

Wisconsin, a state that Hillary Clinton had assumed she would win, historically boasts one of the nation’s highest rates of voter participation; this year’s 68.3 percent turnout was the fifth best among the 50 states. But by local standards, it was a disappointment, the lowest turnout in 16 years. And those no-shows were important. Mr. Trump won the state by just 27,000 voters.

Milwaukee’s lowest-income neighborhoods offer one explanation for the turnout figures. Of the city’s 15 council districts, the decline in turnout from 2012 to 2016 in the five poorest was consistently much greater than the drop seen in more prosperous areas — accounting for half of the overall decline in turnout citywide.

The biggest drop was here in District 15, a stretch of fading wooden homes, sandwich shops and fast-food restaurants that is 84 percent black. In this district, voter turnout declined by 19.5 percent from 2012 figures, according to Neil Albrecht, executive director of the City of Milwaukee Election Commission. It is home to some of Milwaukee’s poorest residents and, according to a 2016 documentary, “Milwaukee 53206,” has one of the nation’s highest per-capita incarceration rates.

At Upper Cutz, a bustling barbershop in a green-trimmed wooden house, talk of politics inevitably comes back to one man: Barack Obama. Mr. Obama’s elections infused many here with a feeling of connection to national politics they had never before experienced. But their lives have not gotten appreciably better, and sourness has set in.

“We went to the beach,” said Maanaan Sabir, 38, owner of the Juice Kitchen, a brightly painted shop a few blocks down West North Avenue, using a metaphor to describe the emotion after Mr. Obama’s election. “And then eight years happened.”

All four barbers had voted for Mr. Obama. But only two could muster the enthusiasm to vote this time. And even then, it was a sort of protest. One wrote in Mrs. Clinton’s Democratic opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont. The other wrote in himself.

“I’m so numb,” said Jahn Toney, 45, who had written in Mr. Sanders. He said no president in his lifetime had done anything to improve the lives of black people, including Mr. Obama, whom he voted for twice. “It’s like I should have known this would happen. We’re worse off than before.”

But Mr. Obama did do something important: “He did give black people something to aspire to. That’s a lot. I’m happy my son was able to see a black president.”

Mr. Fleming, 47, who has been trimming hair, beards and mustaches for 30 years, had hoped his small business would get easier to run. But it hasn’t.

“Give us loans, or a 401(k),” he said, trimming the mustache of Steve Stricklin, a firefighter from the neighborhood. His biggest issue was health insurance. Mr. Fleming lost his coverage after his divorce three years ago and has struggled to find a policy he could afford. He finally found one, which starts Monday but costs too much at $300 a month.

“Ain’t none of this been working,” he said. He did not vote.

Mr. Albrecht, of the election commission, said other factors contributed to the decline in turnout. This was the first general election under new state laws that required voters to produce an approved photo ID card, and that stiffened the requirements for new voters to prove their residence. This was particularly onerous for the poor, who move often.

Mr. Albrecht said he believed this change had cost several thousand people in the city their vote.

“To me that’s very significant,” he said. “It takes away from the fairness and integrity of the election.”

Although two federal district courts had ruled that the photo ID law discriminated against African-Americans, who disproportionately lack the approved IDs, the law was applied on Election Day after an appeals court stayed one of the decisions. Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican who backed the laws, has said they have no impact on voter participation, and Mr. Albrecht allowed that their effect on Milwaukee’s turnout would not have erased Mr. Trump’s victory in the state.

Perhaps the biggest drags on voter turnout in Milwaukee, as in the rest of the country, were the candidates themselves. To some, it was like having to choose between broccoli and liver.

“I felt cornered,” said Ian Pfeiffer, 25, who works the grill at Jake’s Delicatessen and says he did not vote. “We were stuck between Trump and Hillary. They really left us with no choice.”

Mr. Pfeiffer’s grandmother, an avid supporter of Mrs. Clinton, spent months trying to convince him to vote for her. But he could not get over his revulsion at what he saw as trust issues related to the Clinton Foundation. (Mr. Pfeiffer’s grandfather pushed him toward Mr. Trump, but he found him even less appealing.)

He thought Oprah Winfrey would be a good candidate.

“Hey, would you vote for Oprah Winfrey?” he said in a loud voice to a line of customers.

“Yeah, I’d vote for her,” said Erin Miles, 41, a financial services worker waiting for her sandwich. “She has a level head and decision-making skills.”

Few of the men and women interviewed on West North Street last week had voted for Mr. Trump, though many said they admired him. (He spoke his mind. He was rich.)

“If I would have voted, I would have voted for him,” said Andre Frierson, 40, a security guard working the evening shift at Jake’s. “From a business perspective, I loved him.”

As for Mrs. Clinton, “other countries probably wouldn’t have respected us because we had a woman running the country,” he said.

One exception was Justin Babar, who said he voted for Mr. Trump as a protest against Mrs. Clinton. He blamed her husband’s policies for putting him in prison for 20 years.

As for the claims of racism that have dogged Mr. Trump, Mr. Babar wasn’t so worried. “It’s better than smiling to my face but going behind closed doors and voting against our kids,” he said.

Tarvus Hawthorne, 45, a program coordinator at a local nonprofit, agreed.

“He was real, unlike a lot of liberal Democrats who are just as racist” but keep it hidden, he said, his jaw slathered with shaving cream. “You can reason with them all day long, but they think they know it all. They want to have control. That they know what’s best for ‘those people.’”

Still, he voted for Mrs. Clinton, as did many others here.

Upper Cutz gets busier as the day wears on. Children come in after school. Danielle Rogers, Mr. Toney’s sister, stopped by the barbershop for a visit. Everybody agreed they would miss Mr. Obama.

Ms. Rogers said Mr. Obama had aged a lot. “It’s like having a bunch of bad kids,” she said. “He’s probably saying: ‘I’m done. Take them back to their mama’s house.’”

Mr. Fleming was trying to imagine Mr. Trump as president.

“The White House is going to be the penthouse!” he said, adding that Mr. Trump would be like Al Pacino in “Scarface,” with parties in the mansion and exotic animals roaming around the grounds. “If he comes home and finds his wife cheating on him, he could just say, ‘Let’s go to war!’”

They were laughing. But they were also worried.

“He’s going to mess with us on some racist level,” said Otis Jackson, 45, a barber who did not vote. “He’s already appointed a known racist,” he said, referring to Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s chief strategist and the former head of Breitbart News, which has been denounced as a white nationalist hate site.

With so many people sitting in his chair over the years, Mr. Fleming has developed a keen sense of where society is headed. But now he is stumped.

“This was a weird election,” he said, holding a set of clippers and looking pensive. “You can’t tell what’s on people’s minds. There are less cars out there. No one wants to come out. No one knows what comes next.”

He added, “Hell, Trump doesn’t even know.”