WASHINGTON — The White House signaled on Thursday that President Trump would allow a secret memo written by Republican congressional aides to be made public, despite fears from some in the West Wing that it could prompt the resignation of the F.B.I. director, Christopher A. Wray, and lead to another crisis for the administration.

Mr. Trump, who had a brief window to block the memo’s disclosure on national security grounds, was expected to tell Congress on Friday that he had no objections and would probably not request that any of its substance be redacted, according to a senior administration official.

The president’s eagerness to see the document made public pitted him against his own top national security officials, who have warned that it omits crucial context and that its release would jeopardize sensitive government information. The memo is said to accuse federal law enforcement officials of abusing their authorities in seeking court permission to surveil a former Trump campaign adviser.

White House aides worked on Thursday to accommodate concerns raised by Mr. Wray as well as Dan Coats, the director of national intelligence. It was unclear what changes, if any, were being made before the document was transmitted back to the House. White House officials cautioned that the situation remained fluid.

Once Mr. Trump’s decision is formally conveyed to Congress, the House Intelligence Committee, whose leaders have pushed for its release, can make the document public. Exactly how and when that would happen was not immediately clear. Republicans were relying on a never-before-used House rule and did not telegraph their plans.

Mr. Wray and Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein had already tried unsuccessfully this week to persuade the White House to stop the release of the memo, and Thomas O’Connor, the president of the F.B.I. Agents Association, issued a statement on Thursday supporting Mr. Wray. It thanked the director for “standing shoulder to shoulder with the men and women of the F.B.I.” and came a day after the bureau itself strongly condemned the push for the memo’s release.

Despite the White House worries about his unhappiness at the prospect of the document’s release, Mr. Wray, who has kept a relatively low profile since taking over the F.B.I. in August, was unlikely to resign over this issue, people familiar with his thinking said.

Speaker Paul D. Ryan, speaking Thursday to reporters at the Republicans’ annual policy retreat in West Virginia, rejected criticisms of the memo and offered a full-throated defense of the document.

“This memo is not an indictment of the F.B.I., of the Department of Justice. It does not impugn the Mueller investigation or the deputy attorney general,” he said, referring to Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel investigating the Russian election meddling and whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice.

Instead, Mr. Ryan said, the memo was the product of Congress employing oversight of the executive branch.

Mr. Trump has told the people close to him that he believes the memo, which the White House confirmed he had read, makes the case that law enforcement officials acted inappropriately and with bias in the early days of the Russia investigation. He has spent less time talking about it in the White House than some of his supporters have, however.

But people close to Mr. Trump who have been told of the memo’s contents, both inside and outside the White House, conceded that the document was not likely to deliver on those expectations.

Republicans who have seen the three-and-a-half page memo say it makes a case that political bias infected a key action in the early stages of the Russia investigation. It contends that officials from the F.B.I. and Justice Department may have misled a Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court judge when they sought a warrant to spy on the former Trump campaign adviser, Carter Page, in October 2016.

The memo says the officials relied in part on information handed over by a former British intelligence officer, Christopher Steele, without adequately explaining to the judge that the research was paid for by the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign, according to people who have read the document. And it says the material from Mr. Steele was not vetted.

Law enforcement officials described Mr. Steele not as an investigator funded by Democrats but as a reliable source to the bureau who had provided helpful information about corruption in FIFA, soccer’s global governing body, according to two people familiar with the warrant application.

The memo is also said to take note of the role of several senior law enforcement officials, including Mr. Rosenstein and Andrew G. McCabe, the former deputy director of the F.B.I. who quit under pressure this week. Both men were said to be involved at various points in authorizing applications for the surveillance that Republicans say was flawed.

The document was primarily written by Kashyap Patel, a committee staff member for Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California and the chairman of the Intelligence Committee.

Democrats who have seen it say the Republican document amounts to a risky attempt to construct a narrative to undercut the Russia investigation. They say it relies on cherry-picked facts and disregards key context.

Representative Steve Cohen, Democrat of Tennessee, called the document “a banal, inferior, non-shocking, insubstantial memo.”

“Obviously, they wanted to make a point and claim prejudice against President Trump,” he said on Thursday. “When you read the Democratic side, the minority report, it is pretty obvious that all the information that could be before the judge was there.”

Mr. Page had been on the authorities’ radar for years. He had visited Moscow in July 2016 and was preparing to return there that December when investigators obtained the warrant.

Tensions ran high on Thursday among lawmakers, with the House and Senate Democratic leaders calling on Mr. Ryan to remove Mr. Nunes from his chairmanship and one senior Republican senator cautioning that his House colleagues should slow down their push to release the document.

Republicans and Democrats on the Intelligence Committee spent the day arguing over charges by Democrats that the Republicans had made “material changes” to the memo after the committee voted to release it but before it was transmitted to the White House for review. Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the top Democrat on the Intelligence Committee, wrote in a letter late Wednesday that the committee needed to restart the process and vote on the revised memo.

Republicans quickly countered that Mr. Schiff was “complaining about minor edits” and said their vote was “absolutely procedurally sound.” But a senior Democratic official familiar with the changes said the Democrats had found five material differences in the versions of the memo, including one that the official described as an apparent effort to water down the Republican findings. There were six separate changes to grammar or word choice, the official said. It was not immediately clear whether the changes were related to those requested by the F.B.I.

In a sharply worded letter of her own, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, called on Mr. Nunes to be removed as the Intelligence Committee’s chairman.

“Congressman Nunes’s deliberately dishonest actions make him unfit to serve as chairman, and he must be removed immediately from this position,” she wrote, adding, “The integrity of the House is at stake.”

Mr. Ryan dismissed the idea during his afternoon news conference, saying that the Democrats were merely “playing politics.”

Mr. Ryan — speaking in part to his Republican colleagues — urged readers of the memo not to “draw lines” between the material discussed in it and the work or character of Mr. Mueller or Mr. Rosenstein.

The plea was not universally embraced.

Representative Jeff Duncan, Republican of South Carolina, who has been among the memo’s most vocal advocates, wrote on Twitter that the F.B.I. was right to have “grave concerns” about the release “as it will shake the organization down to its core.”

At least three prominent Republican senators — John Thune of South Dakota, the No. 3 in the Senate; Lindsey Graham of South Carolina; and Jeff Flake of Arizona — urged caution. Mr. Flake, in a joint statement with Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, said releasing the memo “risks undermining U.S. intelligence-gathering efforts, politicizing Congress’ oversight role and eroding confidence in our institutions of government.”

Mr. Thune said he thought that the Senate Intelligence Committee and its Republican chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, should be allowed to see the document before its release. And he called for a Democratic memo rebutting the Republican document to be shown to the public at the same time.

Speaking to reporters on Thursday night at a Charleston, S.C., hotel, Mr. Graham expressed concerns over the handling of the memo, which he, like other senators, has not read.

“I’m the chair of the Judiciary Crime Subcommittee with oversight of the F.B.I.,” he said. “I don’t particularly appreciate having to read about it in the paper.”

He suggested that Mr. Nunes’s document was not the best avenue for informing the public.

“A partisan memo,” he said, “is going to lead to another partisan memo.”

WASHINGTON — In President George W. Bush’s last year in office, his former press secretary, Scott McClellan, wrote a tell-all book concluding that the Iraq war was a “serious strategic blunder” based on the “ambition, certitude and self-deceit” of a White House that was not fully honest with the American people.

The president’s remaining advisers were livid at what they considered the betrayal of an aide who had been with Mr. Bush since his Texas days. But when Dana Perino, who then held the same spokesman’s job, expressed her indignation, Mr. Bush sighed and told her to find a way to forgive Mr. McClellan or risk being consumed by anger.

Forgiveness is not exactly President Trump’s first instinct, as he made clear this week when a new book quoted his former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon, offering his own harsh judgments about the White House where he once worked. Every president, it seems, goes through the spin cycle of former aides and revelatory books — some they write themselves, others they are quoted in — and every president has to find a way to grapple with the questions of loyalty and candor that invariably arise. Mr. Trump chose blunt force.

What is different about Mr. Bannon’s stark assessments in Michael Wolff’s new book, “Fire and Fury: Inside the Trump White House,” is not that a former aide would speak out, but that it would happen so early in a presidency. Most books of this sort appear later in a president’s tenure, or even after its end, not before the one-year anniversary. But then again, Mr. Trump’s White House has burned through staff so quickly that the usual patterns have accelerated dramatically.

In a way, what is shocking about the book is that its depiction of a capricious, uninformed and erratic president is not really all that shocking. Indeed, while the White House and various others challenge the accuracy of specific episodes in the book, its broader portrayal largely squares with the journalistic coverage of the past year based on the president’s own staff.

Many readers and viewers have become numb to the stories after watching them play out in public day in and day out. Twitter has made clear that Mr. Trump veers wildly from subject to subject, fight to fight. Fact checkers have made clear that he has a strained relationship with the truth.

Mr. Bannon is quoted in the book saying things that other advisers have said confidentially for months — that the president is stunningly undisciplined with no patience or interest in learning and driven by intemperate, sometimes absurd motivations. At one point, Mr. Bannon describes Mr. Trump acting “like a 9-year-old,” an observation that has power not because it was unique to those who worked for the president but because it is now on the record in Mr. Bannon’s name.

The phenomenon is so universal that it is a wonder any White House is surprised anymore when someone who sat in the next chair during staff meetings in the Roosevelt Room one day becomes the next day’s featured character in the window of Washington bookstores like Kramerbooks or Politics and Prose.

Indeed, Mr. Trump, of all presidents, should know what to expect given his predilection for making employees sign nondisclosure agreements, a practice he brought from the private sector to his 2016 campaign and the subsequent presidential transition.

But other than security reviews that sometimes limit what a former administration official can write in a book, no one has yet figured out a way to muzzle White House aides from telling their stories after departing the West Wing, either in first person or through authors such as Mr. Wolff.

Jimmy Carter’s chief speechwriter, James Fallows, wrote a trenchant piece in The Atlantic Monthly called “The Passionless Presidency,” portraying his former boss as a good man but an ineffective chief executive. Ronald Reagan’s budget director, David Stockman, wrote a book describing an amiable but inattentive and unsophisticated president whose funny math disguised rising deficits.

Perhaps more vexing for Mr. Reagan was the score-settling memoir of Donald T. Regan, his second chief of staff at the White House who was pushed out during the Iran-contra scandal. Mr. Regan’s revelation that Nancy Reagan had influenced the president’s schedule based on advice from her astrologer infuriated the president. “The media are behaving like kids with a new toy — never mind that there is no truth to it,” Mr. Reagan wrote in his diary.

There actually was. Just as there was truth to the sometimes unsettling depiction of Bill Clinton’s White House by his former senior adviser, George Stephanopoulos, whose memoir described his disillusionment with a president who recklessly risked his policy agenda for extramarital sex. When that book was released, Mr. Stephanopoulos’s former White House colleagues stayed away from the launch party lest they risk Mr. Clinton’s ire.

Leon E. Panetta may hold a record of some sort by writing two tell-all memoirs of his time in two presidential administrations 43 years apart. The first was a scathing description of his service as a civil rights official under Richard M. Nixon that ended when Mr. Panetta was pushed out. The second was a more respectful but at times unflattering portrayal of his experiences as C.I.A. director and defense secretary for Barack Obama, whom he deemed smart but vacillating and overly cautious.

Other advisers have told their stories to authors, as Mr. Bannon did. Paul O’Neill, who served an unhappy tenure as Mr. Bush’s first Treasury secretary, gave interviews and documents to the author Ron Suskind for a searing account of a White House where tax-cutting, neoconservative ideology pushed aside evidence and contrary views. Mr. Bush, Mr. O’Neill concluded, was “a blind man in a roomful of deaf people.”

Bob Woodward’s many books have benefited enormously from tales of former aides freed from the shackles of service, usually not attributed directly to them but often clear enough to the presidents who read with seething anger.

As aggravated as Mr. Trump may be with Mr. Bannon’s apostasy and Mr. Wolff’s book, he may need to get used to it. Just one year in, Mr. Trump faces many years of books to come.

He may not have to worry much about Sean Spicer, his first White House press secretary who has remained loyal and is now working on a memoir — although to be sure, no one in the Bush White House initially thought they had to worry about the ever-loyal Mr. McClellan either.

Mr. Trump may have more to wonder about with Omarosa Manigault Newman, the veteran of “The Apprentice” who left her White House post noisily last month saying that as the only African-American woman of prominence on Mr. Trump’s team, she had seen things “that have upset me.” She added ominously, “It is a profound story that I know the world will want to hear.”

And then there is James B. Comey, the F.B.I. director fired by Mr. Trump last year and trashed on Twitter ever since. Mr. Comey has a different understanding of the meaning of loyalty than the president does. His book is due out on May 1. Its title: “A Higher Loyalty: Truth, Lies and Leadership.”

Bargain hunting for hotels for her Thanksgiving trip from Cincinnati to New York City, Anita Scott came across a luxury hotel oddly cheaper than the rest. Then she saw its name.

“I texted my niece and said, ‘You’re going to vomit, but I just saw the Trump SoHo,’” said Ms. Scott from inside that hotel the night before Thanksgiving. “But it’s a deal.”

Soon Ms. Scott will not have to choose between her politics and her purse: The Trump Organization, which operates the 46-story building, announced on Tuesday that because of faltering business, it had reached a deal with the hotel’s owner, the CIM group, to excise the Trump name from the hotel. By as soon as the end of next month, the association with the president may be gone.

The building, which includes condominium apartments, has lost revenue, shuttered restaurants and slashed prices as the professional sports teams and corporate guests who were its mainstays checked out and never returned, according to hotel staff, shedding more guests with each controversy involving the White House.

On Wednesday night, Trump SoHo appeared in some ways to be still living up to the excess of its eponym. Two pocketbook-size Pomeranians pranced across the tawny marble of the lobby, towed by separate guests to check-in. One dog wore a Barbour jacket. At the concierge desk, guests could book a 90-minute-long “Ivanka’s Choice” facial for $370. Vitrines along the wall held bath products encrusted in faux diamonds and a Trump-branded terry cloth bathrobe of a kind that the president himself may or may not wear. A group of Russians milled in the lounge.

But the glitter masked a challenging reality, according to a longtime member of the staff who asked not to be named because employees had signed a nondisclosure agreement. After LeBron James publicly refused to stay at the hotel last year, the corporate clients and 20 or so sports teams that had been regular guests almost entirely disappeared, the staff member said. Porters whose base salaries were once buoyed by up to $60,000 a year in gratuities have earned half as much in tips.

Many employees, some of whom are immigrants from countries targeted by Mr. Trump’s policies, quit, the staff member said.

Yet for some visitors like Saman Gohari, 32, the association with Mr. Trump was the draw. The creation of the hotel was first announced on “The Apprentice,” Mr. Trump’s television show, and though it had been tangled in lawsuits, for Mr. Gohari it still had the burnish of success. “For me, the Trump brand is better than Versace,” he said, after posing for pictures with the golden logo on the doormat outside.

In a room on the 35th floor, things still felt opulent. Guests could be enveloped in Trump bathrobes while shod in Trump slippers, sipping a $75 bottle of Trump wine from the minibar and snacking on a $35 packet of milk chocolate nuggets shaped like gold bullion with the word TRUMP stamped in the candy — all overlooking New Jersey across the Hudson River.

For some guests, the politics was beside the point. It is just a hotel, after all, a cushy place to rest a weary traveling head. The association with the Trump brand felt burdensome, according to a German man who declined to be named because he didn’t want to be associated with the name.

“We have the feeling, that when you go somewhere and you say to a taxi driver, and they say, ‘Where are you going?’ and we say, ‘Trump hotel,’ it’s a political statement,” he said. “They believe that the people who are coming here are supporters of Trump, and the people who are not supporters of Trump are not coming here,” he said.

In fact, he is neither, he said; he has stayed in the hotel for years, well before Mr. Trump’s election, and likes the quality. “We don’t care about politics in the U.S.A.”