BEIJING — There was a time, not so long ago, when a Chinese leader setting himself up as ruler for life would have stirred international condemnation for bucking the global trend toward greater democracy. Now, such an action seems fully in keeping with moves by many countries in the other direction.

The surprise disclosure on Sunday that the Communist Party was abolishing constitutional limits on presidential terms — effectively allowing President Xi Jinping to lead China indefinitely — was the latest and arguably most significant sign of the world’s decisive tilt toward authoritarian governance, often built on the highly personalized exercise of power.

The list includes Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, all of whom have abandoned most pretenses that they rule according to the people’s will. Authoritarianism is also reappearing in places like Hungary and Poland that barely a quarter-century ago shook loose the shackles of Soviet oppression.

There are many reasons for such moves by Mr. Xi and others — including protecting their power and perks in an age of unrest, terrorism and war amplified by new technologies — but a significant one is that few countries have the standing or authority, morally or otherwise, to speak out — least of all, critics say, the United States.

“I mean, who is going to punish him internationally now?” asked Susan L. Shirk, the chairwoman of the 21st Century China Program at the University of California, San Diego.

She and other experts described this “authoritarian reversion” as a global contagion that has undermined the abiding faith that forging liberal democracies and market economies was the surest path to prosperity and equality.

“Thirty years ago, with what Xi did, with what Erdogan has done, there would have been an outpouring of international concern: ‘You’re getting off the path,’ and so on,” said Michael A. McFaul, a political scientist and diplomat who, before serving as the American ambassador in Moscow from 2012 to 2014, wrote extensively on building democracies.

“Nobody is making that argument today,” he added, “certainly not Trump.”

President Trump’s administration on Monday brushed off questions about Mr. Xi’s move. “I believe that’s a decision for China to make about what’s best for their country,” said Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary. “But as you know, the president’s talked about term limits in a number of capacities during the campaign. It’s something that he supports here in the United States, but that’s a decision that would be up to China.”

Almost no one would have described China as genuinely democratic before the latest move, which was announced without fanfare on Sunday; the country remains a one-party state with extensive control over political, social and economic life.

Even so, Mr. Xi’s gambit ended a period of collective and term-limited leadership begun by Jiang Zemin, who held the same post as Mr. Xi from 1993 to 2003, that many had hoped was leading China toward greater rule of law and openness. This shift confirms a growing view that those expectations were probably naïve, some say.

“We’re deluded in our conviction that everybody is going to become a democracy like us,” said Merriden Varrall, the director of the East Asia Program at the Lowy Institute in Australia.

Mr. Xi, who will be 69 when his second five-year term ends in 2023, is not simply following the example set by Mr. Putin or other leaders, she and other experts said. His motivations are unique to Chinese history and politics. Yet, they are deeply shaped by the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989 and collapse of the Soviet Union two years later.

Those historical milestones ushered in an era of expanding political and economic freedoms. Mr. McFaul said that for nearly a quarter of a century autocratic leaders “had to play defense” against the democratizing trend that seized the post-Cold War order.

Even the Russia that emerged from the ruins of the Soviet Union adopted a democratic constitution and instituted free elections. Whatever the chaos of Boris N. Yeltsin’s era in the 1990s, democracy was taking root when Mr. Putin came to power — in a relatively free and fair election, no less.

The rumination of Francis Fukuyama, the scholar, has come up repeatedly. In a famous essay titled “The End of History?” (note the question mark), he argued that Western liberal democracy had become recognized as “the final form of human government.”

“The end of history is no more,” Brad W. Setser, a Treasury official during the Obama administration who is now at the Council on Foreign Relations, wrote in a message after news emerged of Mr. Xi’s move.

In hindsight, Mr. Putin was the vanguard of what Mr. McFaul called the “illiberal international,” a new version of the Communist International founded by Lenin to spread communism around the world.

Authoritarian leaders now act with greater impunity — or at least less worry about international isolation. Aspiring authoritarians like Viktor Orban of Hungary in turn seem enticed by the kind of power Mr. Putin and Mr. Xi wield, untroubled by the need to compromise or consult or, in the case of corruption and cronyism, to answer for evidence of misrule and malfeasance.

President Trump’s critics say that while he may not yet have eroded democracy in the United States, his populist appeals and nativist policies, his palpable aversion to the news media and traditional checks on power, and his stated admiration for some of the strongest of strongmen are cut from the same cloth.

The trend toward authoritarianism, while specific to each country’s history, is rooted in insecurities and fears afflicting the world today: globalization and rising inequality, the stunning and scary advances in technology, the disorienting chaos and extreme violence of civil wars like Syria’s, separatism and terror.

The institutions of the post-Cold War — which reflected the bedrock values of Western liberalism — no longer seem able to cope. Countries that once were beacons for others are consumed by the same anxiety and weakness, and internal strife.

Mr. Putin has long cited such flaws to shore up his power at home; the campaign to interfere in the 2016 presidential election in the United States seemed intended, in the first place, to discredit American democracy still more.

“Liberal democracies in the United States and even in Europe no longer look like such an inspiring model for others to follow,” said Mr. McFaul, whose book on his experience shepherding Russian policy in the Obama administration, “From Cold War to Hot Peace: An American Ambassador in Putin’s Russia,” will be published in May.

From China’s perspective, the end of the Cold War was hardly an inspiration, having led to the toppling of one-party dictatorships. The “contagion” of 1989, which saw popular protesters bring down Communist governments in Central and Eastern Europe, infected China, too. A few months before the Berlin Wall came down, Chinese students massing in Tiananmen Square posed what officials in Beijing viewed as an existential threat, a legacy that continues to color everything the government does to this day.

“If anything gives Xi Jinping and the party nightmares, it is perestroika and the fall of the Soviet Union,” Ms. Varrall said, referring to the reforms the last Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, sought before the system unraveled.

Mr. Xi, as a result, believes that only stability can ensure his vision of China’s revival and emergence as the world’s power. “He seems to genuinely believe that he’s the only person who can achieve this vision,” she said. In last fall’s Communist Party congress, Mr. Xi even presented China as a new model for the developing world — a thinly veiled argument that the United States and Europe were no longer as attractive as they once were.

The need for a strong grip appears to be a long-held conviction of Mr. Xi’s. According to a 2009 diplomatic cable disclosed by WikiLeaks, an old associate told the American ambassador in Beijing at the time, Jon M. Huntsman Jr., that as a son of one of China’s communist revolutionary leaders, Mr. Xi was an elitist who believed deeply in the unwavering authority of the party.

“One cannot entirely escape one’s past,” the associate said. “Xi does not want to.”

CROSSVILLE, Tenn. — The gravel parking lot at the Fitzgerald family’s truck dealership here in central Tennessee was packed last week with shiny new Peterbilt and Freightliner trucks, as well as a steady stream of buyers from across the country.

But there is something unusual about the big rigs sold by the Fitzgeralds: They are equipped with rebuilt diesel engines that do not need to comply with rules on modern emissions controls. That makes them cheaper to operate, but means that they spew 40 to 55 times the air pollution of other new trucks, according to federal estimates, including toxins blamed for asthma, lung cancer and a range of other ailments.

The special treatment for the Fitzgerald trucks is made possible by a loophole in federal law that the Obama administration tried to close, and the Trump administration is now championing. The trucks, originally intended as a way to reuse a relatively new engine and other parts after an accident, became attractive for their ability to evade modern emissions standards and other regulations.

The survival of this loophole is a story of money, politics and suspected academic misconduct, according to interviews and government and private documents, and has been facilitated by Scott Pruitt, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, who has staked out positions in environmental fights that benefit the Trump administration’s corporate backers.

Fitzgerald welcomed President Trump at one of its dealerships during the campaign, and it sells baseball caps with the slogan “Make Trucks Great Again.”

The loophole has been condemned in recent weeks by an array of businesses and environmentalists: major truck makers like Volvo and Navistar; fleet owners like the United Parcel Service; lobbying powerhouses like the National Association of Manufacturers; health and environmental groups like the American Lung Association and the Consumer Federation of America; and some Fitzgerald competitors in Tennessee, Texas and Oklahoma, Mr. Pruitt’s home state.

“This just does not make any sense to me,” said Christine Todd Whitman, who served as head of the E.P.A. during the first George W. Bush administration. “Everybody breathes the same air, Democrats or Republicans. It does not matter. This is about keeping people healthy.”

But the Fitzgerald family has had influential allies. In addition to Mr. Pruitt, they include Representative Diane Black, a Republican who is a candidate for Tennessee governor, and Tennessee Technological University, a state university that produced a study minimizing pollution problems associated with the trucks.

Ms. Black introduced legislation in 2015 to protect the loophole when it was first in line to be eliminated by a stricter diesel emissions rule under the Obama administration. That bill failed, but after the election of Mr. Trump, she turned to Mr. Pruitt to carve out an exemption to the new rule — scheduled to take effect last month — and presented him with the study from Tennessee Tech.

Fitzgerald had not only paid for the study, which has roiled the faculty at Tennessee Tech and is the subject of an internal investigation, but it had also offered to build a new research center for the university on land owned by the company. And in the six weeks before Mr. Pruitt announced in November that he would grant the exemption, Fitzgerald business entities, executives and family members contributed at least $225,000 to Ms. Black’s campaign for governor, campaign disclosure records show.

The multiple donors allowed the company to circumvent a Tennessee state law intended to limit the size of campaign contributions by corporations and political action committees. The donations — many of which came through a series of limited liability companies tied to the family — represented 12 percent of the money Ms. Black had raised from outside sources through last month, the records show.

Tommy Fitzgerald, an owner of Fitzgerald, said the actions by Ms. Black and Mr. Pruitt were good public policy and not special favors to his company.

“I don’t know why anyone would want to kill all these jobs,” Mr. Fitzgerald said, referring to the several hundred people he said he employs at his dealerships, many of them in rural areas. “It does not make any sense.”

Chris Hartline, a spokesman for Ms. Black, said the congresswoman had stood up for a constituent and was not influenced by the campaign donations, which he said complied with state law. “There are very few companies willing to try and keep manufacturing jobs in rural Tennessee today, and Diane fights hard to support the few that do,” Mr. Hartline said.

An E.P.A. spokeswoman, Liz Bowman, said that Mr. Pruitt remained committed to protecting clean air. But, she said, he agreed with a legal argument made by Ms. Black and Fitzgerald that the agency did not have the authority to limit sales.

“E.P.A. is acting on behalf of anyone who sees merit in upholding and perhaps even bolstering the credibility of our laws and the role of Congress,” Ms. Bowman said.

She said that the money donated to Ms. Black had no impact on the decision by Mr. Pruitt.

The trucks sold by Fitzgerald are known as “gliders” because they are manufactured without engines and are later retrofitted with the rebuilt ones. Gliders are popular among small trucking companies and individual truck owners, who say they cannot afford to buy or operate vehicles with new engines and modern emissions controls.

The trucks, which Fitzgerald claims burn less fuel per mile and are cheaper to repair, have been on the market since at least the 1970s. But after the federal government moved to force improvements in truck emissions, with standards that were first enacted during the Clinton administration and took full effect by 2010, gliders became a way for trucking companies to legally skirt the rules.

Dealers like Fitzgerald buy truck bodies from Peterbilt, Freightliner and other manufacturers and typically install 1990s-era engines, recovered from salvage yards, that its employees rebuild down to their cores. The used engines and other remanufactured parts allow dealers to claim that the new trucks predate emissions requirements, and therefore should be exempt.

Nationally, an estimated 10,000 glider trucks were sold in 2015 — or about 4 percent of all new heavy-duty truck sales — the last full year for which data is available, up from fewer than 1,000 in 2010. Fitzgerald is the industry’s largest dealer in retrofitting the trucks by selling so-called glider kit trucks, for about $130,000. Modern trucks, which also include collision avoidance equipment, cost between $145,000 and $170,000, dealers said.

“I hate government mandates,” said Paul Bailey, a state senator and the operations manager at CB Trucking in Cookeville, Tenn., which hauls everything from building supplies to mustard in its fleet of 60 glider trucks, two-thirds of which were purchased from Fitzgerald.

The glider trucks take advantage of other regulatory loopholes. Since most of the engines were manufactured before 1999, the trucks are exempt from a federal law that went into effect in December intended to prevent accidents caused by fatigued drivers. The law requires commercial truck drivers to use an electronic logging system to track how many hours they spend behind the wheel, and to take mandatory breaks. The law covers truck engines manufactured after 1999.

The glider trucks, in some cases, also are not subject to a 12 percent federal excise tax imposed on truck sales, because they are not considered new trucks. Ms. Black intervened with the Internal Revenue Service last year, along with three other members of Congress, to protect that tax break.

A Fitzgerald salesman boasted last week that all 150 trucks on the company’s Crossville lot had been sold as trucking companies rushed to avoid the Obama-era emissions standards and the electronic tracking rule.

“We cannot build them quick enough,” said the salesman, Cody Poston. A second Fitzgerald salesman said the company had pending customer orders for 300 more and had about 2,000 glider trucks on the way to his sales lot.

Matt Moorehead, who helps maintain trucks at the CB Trucking garage in Cookeville, said glider trucks allow small companies and individual drivers to compete with big trucking companies.

He said the trucks are easier to repair and, by some accounts, burn less diesel fuel per mile. And by avoiding the electronic tracking system, drivers can continue to use paper logs, which can be more easily manipulated to allow flexibility in driving and rest times.

“When you got a load of eggs and milk to deliver, these rules can force you to stop driving when you are just a few miles short of your destination,” he said of the electronic tracking.

After E.P.A. officials, during the Obama administration, saw a surge in the number of glider trucks being sold, the agency moved to prohibit any company from manufacturing more than 300 of them per year, effectively killing the industry that had emerged to help sidestep the rules.

Fitzgerald, with Ms. Black’s help, submitted a petition in July asking Mr. Pruitt to suspend the cap and declare that all gliders made by Fitzgerald and at least two other dealers — Iowa-based Harrison Truck Centers and Indiana Phoenix of Avilla, Ind. — be exempted because the new emissions requirements applied only to “new motor vehicle engines.”

To bolster their argument, Fitzgerald submitted the study conducted by Tennessee Tech in late 2016. The study, which Mr. Pruitt cited in the E.P.A.’s November announcement of the rollback, concluded that emissions from the company’s trucks were as clean as those with modern systems.

The push by Fitzgerald had started by May, according to a calendar of Mr. Pruitt’s visitors, when Mr. Pruitt and his chief of staff met with executives from Fitzgerald and Donald Shandy, an Oklahoma lawyer who knows Mr. Pruitt from his tenure as Oklahoma’s attorney general.

By September, to keep the momentum going, Fitzgerald had hired its first full-time federal lobbyist  — a former aide to Ms. Black.

Terry Dotson, president of Worldwide Equipment Enterprises, a Kentucky-based chain of truck dealerships that sells vehicles with modern emissions controls, said he remembered going into repair garages years ago when it was hard to breathe because of soot.

Mr. Dotson says he voted for President Trump and is a strong backer of the coal industry, which relies on his trucks for mining operations. But he does not agree with the administration’s carve-out for glider trucks.

“I want Mr. Fitzgerald to make a fortune and be a happy man,” Mr. Dotson said outside one of his Knoxville, Tenn., dealerships. “But everybody ought to play by the same set of rules.”

Truck manufacturers, as well as shipping companies like UPS, fear that a permanent loophole would encourage other truck dealers to enter the glider business, further undermining efforts to reduce health hazards associated with diesel exhaust and creating unfair competition for them. The National Association of Clean Air Agencies, representing state regulators, and the attorneys general from 12 states have joined in protesting the rollback.

Chet France, former director of assessment and standards at the E.P.A. Office of Transportation and Air Quality, says there are enough truck engines in salvage yards to support the glider market for decades.

“We are talking about super-polluting trucks that are going to put the health of thousands of people at risk,” said Mr. France, who worked at the E.P.A. for 30 years under Democratic and Republican administrations and is a consultant to the Environmental Defense Fund. “And for what?”

The E.P.A. estimates that over the life of every 10,000 trucks without modern emissions systems, up to 1,600 Americans would die prematurely, and thousands more would suffer a variety of ailments including bronchitis and heart attacks, particularly in cities with air pollution associated with diesel-powered trains, ships and power plants.

The health threats are caused by nitrogen oxide and tiny particles of dust and soot that create haze in the air.

In November, just days after Mr. Pruitt said he would eliminate the glider cap, staff members at the E.P.A. submitted an analysis to the agency’s rule-making docket that contradicted the conclusions from Fitzgerald and Tennessee Tech that glider trucks created no more pollution than trucks with updated emissions systems.

The analysis said E.P.A. tests found that the Fitzgerald trucks emitted nitrogen oxide levels during highway operations that were 43 times as high as those from trucks with modern emissions control systems. The air pollution from these glider trucks was so bad that one year’s worth of truck sales was estimated to release 13 times as much nitrogen oxide as all of the Volkswagen diesel cars with fraudulent emissions controls, a scheme that resulted in a criminal case against the company and more than $4 billion in fines.

When testing the glider trucks in stop-and-go traffic, the E.P.A. report said, the testing equipment shut down because of the extreme level of particulates.

“The filters were overloaded with particulate matter,” said the report, which included a photograph of the white filter that had turned pitch black.

In recent weeks, other questions have been raised about the accuracy of the Tennessee Tech study, the role engineering experts at the university played in it, and the relationship between Fitzgerald and the university.

The signature of Tennessee Tech’s president, Philip B. Oldham, appeared on the study, which was included in the petition Fitzgerald submitted in July to eliminate the cap. In April, Mr. Oldham was photographed with Mr. Fitzgerald at the Bristol Motor Speedway in Tennessee, where Fitzgerald sponsors the Fitzgerald Glider Kits 300, a Nascar Xfinity Series stock car race. Mr. Oldham presided over an event at the university in August, where Fitzgerald announced it would build a new academic research center for the university.

Some faculty members say the university appears to have been used by Fitzgerald as part of its lobbying campaign.

“Our reputation has recently been damaged because of a study funded by Fitzgerald Glider Kits and used to influence federal policy,” said a faculty senate resolution passed late last month. Christy Killman, president of the faculty senate, said the results of the study “raised a red flag.”

Mr. Oldham did not respond to a request for comment, but he sent a letter to Ms. Killman this month confirming that a “misconduct in research” investigation had been started, at the faculty’s request, adding that he wanted to ensure the university’s reputation as an “honest broker of knowledge.”

The public comment period on Mr. Pruitt’s intention to repeal the annual cap on glider trucks has passed. Ms. Bowman, the E.P.A. spokeswoman, says the agency is now reviewing the comments before Mr. Pruitt announces a final decision.

“Continuing to improve air quality is a stated priority of Administrator Pruitt’s,” Ms. Bowman said. “Any comments received that raise concerns with the ability to maintain that goal are closely considered and analyzed.”

At Fitzgerald’s sales lot, employees said last week that there was no need to worry about pollution from the trucks, adding that they had emissions test results to prove it.

“They are just as clean,” Mr. Poston said of the gliders, compared with modern trucks, “if not cleaner.”

Donald John Trump was elected the 45th president of the United States on Tuesday in a stunning culmination of an explosive, populist and polarizing campaign that took relentless aim at the institutions and long-held ideals of American democracy.

The surprise outcome, defying late polls that showed Hillary Clinton with a modest but persistent edge, threatened convulsions throughout the country and the world, where skeptics had watched with alarm as Mr. Trump’s unvarnished overtures to disillusioned voters took hold.

The triumph for Mr. Trump, 70, a real estate developer-turned-reality television star with no government experience, was a powerful rejection of the establishment forces that had assembled against him, from the world of business to government, and the consensus they had forged on everything from trade to immigration.

The results amounted to a repudiation, not only of Mrs. Clinton, but of President Obama, whose legacy is suddenly imperiled. And it was a decisive demonstration of power by a largely overlooked coalition of mostly blue-collar white and working-class voters who felt that the promise of the United States had slipped their grasp amid decades of globalization and multiculturalism.

In Mr. Trump, a thrice-married Manhattanite who lives in a marble-wrapped three-story penthouse apartment on Fifth Avenue, they found an improbable champion.

“The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer,” Mr. Trump told supporters around 3 a.m. on Wednesday at a rally in New York City, just after Mrs. Clinton called to concede.

In a departure from a blistering campaign in which he repeatedly stoked division, Mr. Trump sought to do something he had conspicuously avoided as a candidate: Appeal for unity.

“Now it’s time for America to bind the wounds of division,” he said. “It is time for us to come together as one united people. It’s time.”

That, he added, “is so important to me.”

He offered unusually warm words for Mrs. Clinton, who he has suggested should be in jail, saying she was owed “a major debt of gratitude for her service to our country.”

Bolstered by Mr. Trump’s strong showing, Republicans  retained control of the Senate. Only one Republican-controlled seat, in Illinois, fell to Democrats early in the evening. And Senator Richard Burr of North Carolina, a Republican, easily won re-election in a race that had been among the country’s most competitive. A handful of other Republican incumbents facing difficult races were running better than expected.

Mr. Trump’s win — stretching across the battleground states of Florida, North Carolina, Ohio and Pennsylvania — seemed likely to set off financial jitters  and immediate unease among international allies, many of which were startled when Mr. Trump in his campaign cast doubt on the necessity of America’s military commitments abroad and its allegiance to international economic partnerships.

From the moment he entered the campaign, with a shocking set of claims that Mexican immigrants were rapists and criminals, Mr. Trump was widely underestimated as a candidate, first by his opponents for the Republican nomination and later by Mrs. Clinton, his Democratic rival. His rise was largely missed by polling organizations and data analysts. And an air of improbability trailed his campaign, to the detriment of those who dismissed his angry message, his improvisational style and his appeal to disillusioned voters.

He suggested remedies that raised questions of constitutionality, like a ban on Muslims entering the United States.

He threatened opponents, promising lawsuits against news organizations that covered him critically and women who accused him of sexual assault. At times, he simply lied.

But Mr. Trump’s unfiltered rallies and unshakable self-regard attracted a zealous following, fusing unsubtle identity politics with an economic populism that often defied party doctrine.

His rallies — furious, entertaining, heavy on name-calling and nationalist overtones — became the nexus of a political movement, with daily promises of sweeping victory, in the election and otherwise, and an insistence that the country’s political machinery was “rigged” against Mr. Trump and those who admired him.

He seemed to embody the success and grandeur that so many of his followers felt was missing from their own lives — and from the country itself. And he scoffed at the poll-driven word-parsing ways of modern politics, calling them a waste of time and money. Instead, he relied on his gut.

At his victory party at the New York Hilton Midtown, where a raucous crowd indulged in a cash bar and wore hats bearing his ubiquitous campaign slogan “Make America Great Again,” voters expressed gratification that their voices had, at last, been heard.

“He was talking to people who weren’t being spoken to,” said Joseph Gravagna, 37, a marketing company owner from Rockland County, N.Y. “That’s how I knew he was going to win.”

For Mrs. Clinton, the defeat signaled an astonishing end to a political dynasty that has colored Democratic politics for a generation. Eight years after losing to President Obama in the Democratic primary — and 16 years after leaving the White House for the United States Senate, as President Bill Clinton exited office — she had seemed positioned to carry on two legacies: her husband’s and the president’s.

Her shocking loss was a devastating turn for the sprawling world of Clinton aides and strategists who believed they had built an electoral machine that would swamp Mr. Trump’s ragtag band of loyal operatives and family members, many of whom had no experience running a national campaign.

On Tuesday night, stricken Clinton aides who believed that Mr. Trump had no mathematical path to victory, anxiously paced the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center as states in which they were confident of victory, like Florida and North Carolina, either fell to Mr. Trump or seemed in danger of tipping his way.

Mrs. Clinton watched the grim results roll in from a suite at the nearby Peninsula Hotel, surrounded by her family, friends and advisers who had the day before celebrated her candidacy with a champagne toast on her campaign plane.

But over and over, Mrs. Clinton’s weaknesses as a candidate were exposed. She failed to excite voters hungry for change. She struggled to build trust with Americans who were baffled by her decision to use a private email server as secretary of state. And she strained to make a persuasive case for herself as a champion of the economically downtrodden after delivering perfunctory paid speeches that earned her millions of dollars.

The returns Tuesday also amounted to a historic rebuke of the Democratic Party from the white blue-collar voters who had formed the party base from the presidency of Franklin D. Roosevelt to Mr. Clinton’s. Yet Mrs. Clinton and her advisers had taken for granted that states like Michigan and Wisconsin would stick with a Democratic nominee, and that she could repeat Mr. Obama’s strategy of mobilizing the party’s ascendant liberal coalition rather than pursuing a more moderate course like her husband did 24 years ago.

But not until these voters were offered a Republican who ran as an unapologetic populist, railing against foreign trade deals and illegal immigration, did they move so drastically away from their ancestral political home.

To the surprise of many on the left, white voters who had helped elect the nation’s first black president, appeared more reluctant to line up behind a white woman.

From Pennsylvania to Wisconsin, industrial towns once full of union voters who for decades offered their votes to Democratic presidential candidates, even in the party’s lean years, shifted to Mr. Trump’s Republican Party. One county in the Mahoning Valley of Ohio, Trumbull, went to Mr. Trump by a six-point margin. Four years ago, Mr. Obama won there by 22 points.

Mrs. Clinton’s loss was especially crushing to millions who had cheered her march toward history as, they hoped, the nation’s first female president. For supporters, the election often felt like a referendum on gender progress: an opportunity to elevate a woman to the nation’s top job and to repudiate a man whose remarkably boorish behavior toward women had assumed center stage during much of the campaign.

Mr. Trump boasted, in a 2005 video released last month, about using his public profile to commit sexual assault. He suggested that female political rivals lacked a presidential “look.” He ranked women on a scale of one to 10, even holding forth on the desirability of his own daughter — the kind of throwback male behavior that many in the country assumed would disqualify a candidate for high office.

On Tuesday, the public’s verdict was rendered.

Uncertainty abounds as Mr. Trump prepares to take office. His campaign featured a shape-shifting list of policy proposals, often seeming to change hour to hour. His staff was in constant turmoil, with Mr. Trump’s children serving critical campaign roles and a rotating cast of advisers alternately seeking access to Mr. Trump’s ear, losing it and, often, regaining it, depending on the day.

Even Mr. Trump’s full embrace of the Republican Party came exceedingly late in life, leaving members of both parties unsure about what he truly believes. He has donated heavily to both parties and has long described his politics as the transactional reality of a businessman.

Mr. Trump’s dozens of business entanglements — many of them in foreign countries — will follow him into the Oval Office, raising questions about potential conflicts of interest. His refusal to release his tax returns, and his acknowledgment that he did not pay federal income taxes for years, has left the American people with considerable gaps in their understanding of the financial dealings.

But this they do know: Mr. Trump will thoroughly reimagine the tone, standards and expectations of the presidency, molding it in his own self-aggrandizing image.

He is set to take the oath of office on Jan. 20.