WASHINGTON — President Obama has proposed granting Israel the largest package of military aid ever provided by the United States to another nation, but he and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu remain deeply at odds over a figure for the assistance despite months of negotiations.

American officials have balked as their Israeli counterparts insisted on more generous terms for a new 10-year military aid package that could top $40 billion. The divide, which could have broad national security implications for both the United States and Israel, is exacerbated by the pent-up animosity between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu, which has been stoked by their radically divergent views of the nuclear deal with Iran.

“There’s a unique place of pique for the Israelis in certain places in the administration, and I think that hovers around this negotiation,” said Robert Satloff, the executive director of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “It’s one of the reasons it’s taken so long to reach a decision.”

Powerful political forces are also at work. While Mr. Obama would like to burnish his legacy with an unprecedented military aid pact with Israel, some observers in the United States and Israel believe that Mr. Netanyahu is calculating that he can reach a more advantageous deal with a future president.

“At the end of the day, it’s a numbers question and a political bet about whether the Israelis can get something better from the next administration, which I think would not be a wise gamble,” said Ilan Goldenberg, the director of the Middle East Security Program at the Center for a New American Security. “I do think the longer this drags on, the less likely they are to get a deal.”

Israeli officials strongly deny that they are holding out for a sweeter agreement under a new president. One Israeli official, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly on the confidential talks, said the Israeli government hoped a deal could be reached soon with the Obama administration.

At the height of the split over the Iran agreement last year, Mr. Netanyahu refused to negotiate with Mr. Obama over the terms of a package to replace the roughly $3-billion-a-year military aid deal that expires in 2018. Now, both sides say they want a deal, even as the talks approach a fifth month.

“What the United States has committed to do is to ramp up the assistance that we provide to Israel in a way that would allow Israel to be the recipient of more national security aid than any other country has ever received from the United States,” Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, said Wednesday.

“That is an indication of the depth of this country and this administration’s commitment to Israel’s security,” he added. “Working out the details, though, is complicated.”

Mr. Earnest said he could not put a time frame on a resolution.

It has long been United States policy to ensure that Israel preserves a “qualitative military edge” over neighboring countries, on the theory that because it is much smaller than its potential adversaries, it needs better technology and training to counter threats. Israel has been the largest cumulative recipient of American foreign aid since World War II.

Wary of an impasse in the talks, 81 Republicans and Democrats in the Senate signed a letter to Mr. Obama this week urging him to conclude “a robust new M.O.U.,” or memorandum of understanding, “that increases aid while retaining the current terms of our existing aid program.”

They cited “the likelihood that Iran will resume its quest for nuclear weapons.”

Aid to Israel “needs to be increased given the security challenges in the region,” said Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, who was a principal force behind the letter, along with Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina.

“It’s an important legacy item to leave the U.S.-Israel security relationship on a strong and robust footing,” Mr. Coons said in an interview. “It would provide stability, security and predictability for the Israeli people and for America’s allies in the region to conclude this sooner rather than later.”

Technical discussions about the agreement are being conducted in strict secrecy by military officials of both governments, and neither side would detail specific funding levels. But the disputes over money are grounded in more profound rifts over policy, politics and national security strategy.

While the president views the Iran agreement as having bolstered Israel’s security — along with that of the United States and the rest of the world — by restraining Tehran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon, the Israelis believe that the lifting of sanctions on Iran has only emboldened a government that directly threatens them.

“The administration doesn’t want to lose the Iran battle after they’ve already won it by rewarding Israel with an over-the-top increase in aid,” said Aaron David Miller, vice president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.

At the same time, there are powerful incentives for both sides to seek a swift agreement. For Mr. Obama, the deal would cement his claim to have done more than any other president to support Israel’s security, while Mr. Netanyahu would come away with assurance that the countries’ relationship has survived an extraordinarily tumultuous and partisan period.

“The president and the White House would like to end his term putting the capstone on his persona as the most supportive of Israel’s security,” said Mr. Satloff, of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “The Israelis are very eager to complete this deal precisely because he is a progressive president, and having a progressive president endorse this is important for the bipartisan nature of the relationship.”

Some observers also believe that signing a generous military aid package would insulate Mr. Obama against accusations of being too tough on Israel should he decide later this year to pressure it to accept a peace deal with the Palestinians that embraces a two-state solution. The White House has debated whether Mr. Obama should do so, in an effort to preserve for a successor the possibility of a two-state solution.

If the administration takes that approach, Mr. Miller said, “they need to have laid the predicate that they’ve got Israel’s back on the security piece.”

HANOI, Vietnam — Officially, the top world leaders who gather Thursday at the Group of 7 summit meeting will talk about shared concerns, like global trade or the Islamic State. But their private discussions are likely to cover a topic that is not on the agenda: Donald J. Trump.

President Obama now hears questions in his meetings with world leaders about whether Mr. Trump has a realistic shot at becoming president.

For months, Mr. Obama has answered those questions with an emphatic “no.”

“I continue to believe Mr. Trump will not be president,” Mr. Obama said in February at the end of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations summit meeting in California.

But this week’s summit meeting in Japan is the first among major allies since Mr. Trump moved decisively toward securing the Republican nomination, and Mr. Obama’s counterparts are likely to want more detail in his explanations of an election that has prompted fascination and apprehension overseas.

Mr. Obama’s Japanese hosts are particularly alarmed at the prospect of a Trump presidency because the real estate developer has been bashing Japan for decades. Mr. Trump’s criticisms have a distinctly 1980s flavor, when Japanese cars were flooding American markets and Japanese businesses were buying premier American properties like Rockefeller Center in New York.

“You have to see the trade imbalance between Japan and the United States — it’s unbelievable,” Mr. Trump said in a recent interview. “They sell to us, and we practically give them back nothing by comparison.”

He added, “It’s a very unfair situation.”

Mr. Trump has criticized the military alliance between Japan and the United States as being one-sided, and he suggested in a March interview that Japan and South Korea should have their own nuclear arsenals so they would be less reliant on the security umbrella provided by the United States.

Hosting an April summit meeting intended to limit the proliferation of nuclear weapons, Mr. Obama lashed out.

“The person who made the statements doesn’t know much about foreign policy, nuclear policy or the Korean Peninsula, or the world generally,” he said, not mentioning Mr. Trump by name. But he acknowledged that foreign leaders had questioned him about the presumptive Republican nominee.

“It came up on the sidelines, I’ve said before, that people pay attention to American elections,” Mr. Obama said. “Even in those countries that are used to a carnival atmosphere in their own politics want sobriety and clarity when it comes to U.S. elections.”

More recently, Mr. Trump suggested that he would be willing to hold direct negotiations with Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, in yet another challenge to a core Japanese security priority.

Mr. Trump’s March comments led to an almost immediate response from Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan. “Whoever will become the next president of the United States, the Japan-U.S. alliance is the cornerstone of Japan’s diplomacy,” Mr. Abe said.

Other Japanese officials have been even more forceful. The first week in May is generally regarded as a holiday in Japan, and top Japanese officials flood Washington for meetings. This year, many of those meetings focused on anxieties over Mr. Trump’s remarks.

At one such meeting, Kenichiro Sasae, Japan’s ambassador to the United States, joked that he was looking forward to hearing experts “explain how Emperor Qin Shi Huang built the Great Wall of China and made the Mexicans pay for it,” a reference to Mr. Trump’s promise to build a wall at the Mexican border at Mexico’s expense.

In a more serious vein, Mr. Sasae said he was disappointed by the isolationism expressed by some presidential candidates, another clear reference to Mr. Trump.

“I don’t want to see that kind of United States,” Mr. Sasae said. “I know that you know there has to be a debate about how to make the United States this strong, but the question is not whether you can be strong without a proper role in the rest of the world.”

At another recent meeting, Itsunori Onodera, a former defense minister and a member of the Japanese House of Representatives, gave a lengthy list of what he characterized as Mr. Trump’s misstatements. “I don’t think there are any Trump supporters present here,” he joked.

Mr. Onodera emphasized the ways that Japan supported Washington’s priorities in the region and helped pay American expenses.

“Nothing is more important than the stability of East Asia,” he said. “We don’t want the U.S. political leaders to send out the wrong message.”

Even so, some Japanese officials have been concerned that the Obama administration is too solicitous of China, Tokyo’s great Asian rival.

“Whatever concerns there were about the Obama administration sometimes tilting toward China, those have been overwhelmed with what Trump is saying about Japan and our alliances,” said Michael J. Green, who served as a senior adviser on Asia during the George W. Bush administration. “They’re really worried.”

In private conversations, Japanese officials have said their only solace is that Mr. Trump is even more critical of China than he is of Japan.

Even if Mr. Trump loses, his ascent has led world leaders to worry that his “America first” platform is a harbinger of pressure for allies to pay up or make trade concessions in return for military protection.

Mr. Obama has himself insisted that allies share more of the burdens of military efforts in places like Libya and Syria, and has openly complained that even some European allies are “free riders.” But Mr. Obama still accepts that the United States is an indispensable nation without whose leadership global problems fester and intensify. Administration officials do say that sometimes the United States must act solely for the security of other nations, a message they hope will reassure the Japanese.

IT wasn’t supposed to end this way for Democrats.

Eight years ago, Barack Obama won the presidency promising to transform America. A supremely self-confident politician, Mr. Obama was the object of extravagant hopes that he nurtured and encouraged.

After his Super Tuesday primary victories in 2008, Mr. Obama said that the movement he began would “ring out across this land as a hymn that will heal this nation, repair this world, make this time different than all the rest.” He would slow the rise of the oceans, end wars abroad and bridge political divisions at home. For his supporters, Mr. Obama was almost a figure of myth, comparable to Lincoln. When he won the presidency, nothing seemed beyond his reach.

Yet after two terms of the Obama presidency, the Democratic Party is weaker than it has been since the 1920s. Republicans now control the presidency, the Senate, the House and a strong majority of governorships and state legislatures. President Obama’s repeated personal appeals to his supporters to vote for Hillary Clinton in order to preserve his legacy failed to put her over the top. The man who seemed to hold such promise for his party ended up taking a scythe to it.

What happened?

For some of the president’s admirers, the answer is that America has become benighted and bigoted. For others, the culprit is the Republican Party, which obstructed Mr. Obama at every turn. And for still others, like Mr. Obama, the problem is that his administration didn’t do enough to advertise its greatness.

Even if you believe there are elements of truth in these explanations, they still amount to excuses. The same country that twice elected Mr. Obama did not suddenly become a nation of deplorables. In his first two years, with Democrats firmly in control of the House and Senate, Mr. Obama won the passage of his sweeping legislative agenda, including the Affordable Care Act, the stimulus package, financial regulations, the extension of jobless benefits and more. As for selling his policies, President Obama was constantly making his case.

The decimation of the Democratic Party came because Mr. Obama turned out to be great at poetry and bad at prose.

Start with the economy. It’s true that he inherited a wicked recession, that unemployment is much lower than when he entered office and that the stock market has reached an all-time high. On the flip side, the economic recovery has been unusually weak, with annual growth never exceeding 3 percent. (Until Mr. Obama, every president since Herbert Hoover had at least one year of 3 percent growth.) The labor force participation rate is at the lowest it has been since the 1970s. Since 2008, real wages have remained the same or fallen for the bottom four-fifths.

To make matters worse, the Obama presidency has been characterized by injurious incompetence, in particular with regard to his signature achievement, Obamacare. The unveiling of the website was a disaster, and the promises the president made — that Americans could keep their doctors and plans if they chose to — were false. Mr. Obama guaranteed lower insurance costs to families and lower health costs to the taxpayer; instead, costs rose. Several of the state-run exchanges appear to be headed for collapse.

Overseas, the Obama years have been defined by spreading disorder and chaos, particularly in the Middle East and North Africa, with nations collapsing and borders dissolving. More terrorist safe havens have been established than ever before. Russia and China have become more aggressive and significantly increased their geopolitical influence. America is now held in brazen contempt by our enemies and mistrusted by many of our allies.

Yet in some respects the greatest failure of the Obama years is in the area where many people thought he would excel. Mr. Obama made the centerpiece of his 2008 campaign a promise to end a politics that “breeds division and conflict and cynicism.” In February of that year, I praised him for “a message that, at its core, is about unity and hope rather than division and resentment.” Yet he leaves office with America more conflicted and cynical than when he took office. More than 70 percent of Americans say the country is either more divided or no more united than it was in 2009. Race relations are the worst in decades, and our nation is as polarized as it has been in the modern era.

It would be silly to lay all the blame for this at the feet of Mr. Obama. Republicans have been rhetorically reckless at times, and President-elect Donald Trump has coarsened public discourse and set Americans against one another in ways that were once unimaginable. But Mr. Obama came first, and he played a role in where we are.

In his farewell address last week, President Obama said that for the sake of our democracy we need to heed the advice of the fictional character Atticus Finch, who said, “You never really understand a person until you consider things from his point of view.”

Yet Mr. Obama never seemed to consider things from a different point of view from his own. He has shown withering disdain for his opponents, constantly impugning their motives even as he testified to the purity of his own. It was his arrogance that proved to be Mr. Obama’s undoing. (Even leaders of his own party felt Mr. Obama’s derision, as if dealing with them was somehow beneath him.) Mr. Obama dismissed those who disagreed with him like a professor forced to deal with simple-minded, wayward students. He warned us against retreating into our bubbles, but he was never able to escape his own.

During the Obama presidency, many people felt unheard and alienated. They are the kind of Americans Mr. Obama had in mind in 2008 when he talked about “bitter” people clinging to their “guns or religion.”

Barack Obama is among the most talented campaigners we have ever seen. But as president, he failed in a manner and on a scale that damaged his party, undermined faith in the institutions of government and left the nation more riven than he found it. For most Americans, the economy has been listless. All this helped create the conditions that allowed a cynical demagogue to rise up and succeed him, one who will undo the achievements he most prizes.

In many ways Barack Obama and Donald Trump could not be more different. Mr. Obama is equable and graceful; Mr. Trump is erratic and graceless. Yet one cannot make sense of the incoming presidency without understanding the failures of the outgoing one.

Around noon on Friday, the presidency of Barack Obama will officially be history, and for months the news media has been awash in considerations of the first African-American president’s legacy.

But there’s one aspect of his record that has received less attention: his legacy as a historian.

True, Mr. Obama may be unlikely to emulate Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson and follow his years in the Oval Office with a stint as president of the American Historical Association. But some scholars see in him a man who used the presidency not just as a bully pulpit but also as something of a historian’s lectern.

And he wielded it, they say, to tell a story more strikingly in sync with the bottom-up view of history that dominates academic scholarship than with the biographies of great leaders that rule the best-seller list.

“Obama had these confabs with the presidential historians, but I don’t think he thinks like a presidential historian,” James Grossman, the executive director of the American Historical Association, said, referring to the regular dinners Mr. Obama held with leading historians in the early years of his presidency. “I think he thinks like a social historian.”

David M. Kennedy, a historian at Stanford who attended the dinners, said that Mr. Obama had very much focused on the presidency, and on how his predecessors had responded to crises or maneuvered in Congress — “blocking and tackling,” as Mr. Kennedy put it.

But this president, Mr. Kennedy added, also had “a detached sense of himself as an actor in history.”

“He doesn’t think of history as himself writ large,” Mr. Kennedy added, “but as a big stage with a lot of actors on it.”

Not that Mr. Obama has necessarily followed the cast-of-thousands script. Eric Foner, the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book “The Fiery Trial: Abraham Lincoln and American Slavery,” cited what he called Mr. Obama’s “divided mind about both history and politics.”

“Obama came into office as the result of broad social mobilization,” Mr. Foner said in an email. “Yet very quickly, he made it clear that he felt that ‘change,’ the slogan of his 2008 campaign, would begin with him.”

All presidents both frame history and try to make it. They act as an unofficial narrator in chief, laying down fresh rhetorical markers alongside the familiar signposts of the American story.

And Mr. Obama, in his speeches, has perhaps added more markers than most. He’s positioned his own rise as a step toward fulfillment of America’s ideals of liberty and equality, while also drawing a straight line through “Seneca Falls and Selma and Stonewall,” as he put it in his second Inaugural.

He has also laid new facts on the ground, wielding his executive authority to designate national monuments dedicated to the post-Civil War “buffalo soldiers,” the women’s rights movement, the early labor movement, the Stonewall uprising, the Latino farmworkers movement and — just last week — the first National Park Service site dedicated to Reconstruction.

Kenneth Mack, a historian at Harvard Law School who has known Mr. Obama since they were classmates there, said that he was “the first president who has really been able to wrap the history of the civil rights movement into the fabric of American history,” while also pointedly hailing other marginalized groups’ push for inclusion in “We the people.”

“It’s not just about commemorating the heroes of the past,” Mr. Mack said, “but also things Americans disagreed about, and still disagree about.”

Mr. Obama’s monument designations, some historians said, don’t just put more diverse history on the table. They also reflect current scholarly emphasis on the ways marginalized groups demanded their own rights, pushing politicians to act.

Manisha Sinha, a professor at the University of Connecticut and the author of “The Slave’s Cause,” a history of abolition, pointed to Fort Monroe in Virginia, Mr. Obama’s first monument designation, in 2011. Mr. Obama’s proclamation notes the fort’s “storied history in defense of our nation.” But it focuses mainly on the enslaved African-Americans who sought refuge there early in the Civil War, setting off an argument that led, ultimately, to the Emancipation Proclamation.

“It shows Obama understands emancipation wasn’t just about Lincoln, but part of a more complicated historical process,” Ms. Sinha said.

Perhaps none of the history Mr. Obama has shined a light on is as complicated — or as contested — as Reconstruction, the post-Civil War period that scholars have long lamented is too often remembered as a disastrous period of corrupt “carpetbag rule,” when it is remembered at all.

By contrast, Mr. Obama’s proclamation, which designates four sites near Beaufort, S.C., is more in keeping with recent scholarship, which emphasizes Reconstruction as a hopeful, if difficult, period when African-Americans acquired property, built schools and churches and voted, helping elect an estimated 2,000 African-American men to local, state and federal office.

The proclamation treads lightly on the ways Reconstruction was rolled back through legal disenfranchisement and white terrorism, in a far harsher reversal than what Mr. Obama, in his farewell address, called the sometimes halting “two steps forward,” “one step back” arc of history.

Some historians noted what they called the dark symbolism of the Reconstruction monument’s coming to fruition just days before Mr. Obama is succeeded by Donald J. Trump. But if Mr. Trump’s victory came as a surprise to the president and many others, it had the quality of a rerun to scholars mindful of the history of white backlash.

“This is one place where I think Obama as a historian was a little short-sighted,” said Nathan Connolly, a historian at Johns Hopkins and author of “A World More Concrete: Real Estate and the Remaking of Jim Crow South Florida.”

Mr. Connolly, echoing Mr. Foner and other critics of Mr. Obama from the left, also faulted him for not supporting the kind of historical ground-up activism he celebrates.

“When it came to using the bully pulpit to advance grassroots activism, he did not show up,” Mr. Connolly said.