CAPE TOWN — South Africa and Nigeria have joined a chorus of nations condemning President Trump’s inflammatory remarks on immigration, as Africa experts warned that the controversy threatened to set back American interests across the world’s fastest-growing continent.

Since Thursday, when several participants in a meeting with Mr. Trump said he had asked why the United States should take in migrants from “shithole countries,” including Haiti and African nations, the Trump administration has been erratic in its account of what happened.

On Friday, Mr. Trump insisted on Twitter that “this was not the language used,” and on Sunday, he told reporters, “I’m not a racist.” On Monday, Mr. Trump said that a Democratic senator who attended the meeting, Richard J. Durbin, had “totally misrepresented” his comments.

The State Department, meanwhile, has instructed diplomats not to deny Mr. Trump’s remarks, but simply to listen to complaints.

Botswana, Ghana, Haiti, Namibia, Senegal and the African Union have all protested Mr. Trump’s remarks; Botswana asked the United States “to clarify if Botswana is regarded as a ‘shithole’ country.”

“Africa and the African diaspora has contributed significantly to the United States and to its development into the country that it is today,” Clayson Monyela, a spokesman for the South African Department of International Relations and Cooperation, said on Monday. “The African and international reaction to the alleged statements clearly serve as a united affirmation of the dignity of the people of Africa and the African diaspora.”

Cyril Ramaphosa, South Africa’s deputy president and the newly elected leader of the governing African National Congress, called the statement “really, really derogatory” and “hugely offensive.” He said of Mr. Trump, “It demonstrates precisely the type of leader he is.”

Nigeria’s foreign minister, Geoffrey Onyeama, also summoned American diplomats to explain Mr. Trump’s comments, calling them “deeply hurtful, offensive and unacceptable,” Reuters reported.

Reuben E. Brigety II, who was the United States ambassador to the African Union from 2013 to 2015, said on Monday that he had been in touch with African ministers and ambassadors throughout the weekend.

“The appropriate word to describe their reactions to the president’s comments is fury,” he said, “notwithstanding the fact that the president has said that he didn’t say what was attributed to him. They don’t believe it.”

Mr. Brigety said that Mr. Trump’s remarks were on the agenda for the annual African Union summit meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, this month.

“A red line has been crossed,” he said.

Ottilia Anna Maunganidze, a researcher at the Institute for Security Studies in Pretoria, said the protests from Botswana and from the African Union reflected a deep undercurrent of frustration and anger. “Strong statements from other African countries show that the continental body won’t just put up with Trump’s views,” she said.

The United States has many interests in Africa: battling Islamist insurgencies like Boko Haram in West Africa and the Shabab in the Horn of Africa; reducing political instability and improving governance, particularly in conflict-torn nations like South Sudan and Somalia; and taking advantage of the dynamism of a rapidly urbanizing continent that is rich in natural resources and has a young and growing population.

“Obviously we have been competing with the Chinese for engagement and influence in Africa,” Mr. Brigety said. “It is an understatement to say that the president’s remarks do not help in this regard. To have insulted an entire continent in the most vile terms is manifestly harmful to our interests.”

Patrick Gaspard, the United States ambassador to South Africa from 2013 to 2016, said that progress on trade, public health, security and education, among many areas, had been “thrown into question by the irresponsible and vulgar comments made by the president.”

Mr. Trump’s long history of racially insensitive or insulting comments include several that have rankled Africans: Last June, he mused that Nigerians in the United States would not “go back to their huts” in Africa, and he told African leaders in September: “I have so many friends going to your countries trying to get rich,” a comment that critics said smacked of colonialism.

“There’s clearly profound ignorance here and some profound blind spots,” Mr. Gaspard said.

R. Nicholas Burns, a career diplomat who was ambassador to NATO and an undersecretary of state for political affairs during George W. Bush’s presidency, said the remarks had created real damage.

“Of all the vile, offensive Trump statements, what he said about Haiti and Africa might have been the worst in the eyes of people overseas,” he wrote on Twitter on Monday. “It was a cruel, ignorant, blanket indictment of entire countries. The blow to U.S. credibility is real and long-lasting.”

Even observers willing to put Mr. Trump’s remarks in the most generous light — perhaps he was invoking longstanding problems of poverty and corruption — were unwilling to defend them.

“In objective terms, many Africans live in ‘shitty’ situations and if asked would probably agree with some of Trump’s sentiments,” said Sithembile Mbete, a lecturer in international relations at the University of Pretoria. “But his comments matter hugely in the realm of politics. Once again, he’s shown that he has no interest in even pretending to uphold U.S. values like tolerance and equality. This has become a symbol of his racism and forged a solidarity throughout the African diaspora that we don’t often see in international politics.”

In Haiti, some saw one bright spot.

“We are being flooded with emails and phone calls from average Americans expressing their solidarity with us, expressing their anger at what was said,” Paul G. Altidor, Haiti’s ambassador to the United States, told CNN on Monday. “In some ways the apology came from the American people already.”

Mr. Trump spent Monday, the federal holiday commemorating the birthday of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., golfing. But in a recorded address marking the holiday he said that “Dr. King’s dream is our dream, it is the American dream,” and added, “It is the dream of a world where people are judged by who they are, not how they look or where they come from.”

WASHINGTON — President Trump dined at the ornate Georgetown home of a prominent Washington lawyer on Wednesday night with wealthy donors who are expected to play crucial roles in financing his re-election campaign.

The dinner was the latest in a series of donor events associated with a pair of independent groups — America First Policies and America First Action — that are aiming to raise $100 million this year, mostly in large donations, to support Mr. Trump’s agenda and the election campaigns of allied congressional candidates.

Attendees included donors and operatives who are working to raise money for the America First groups, such as the Dallas financial executive Roy W. Bailey and the Oklahoma oil billionaire Harold Hamm, as well as the president’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., according to someone briefed on the list of attendees and published reports.

Mr. Hamm and Mr. Bailey are on the board of America First Policies, a nonprofit group that was created to advocate Mr. Trump’s agenda and that has paid for a series of polls and strategy memos about the political effects of the Trump administration’s efforts. America First Action, on the other hand, is a “super PAC” that is raising money to air advertisements in support of Republican congressional candidates allied with the president.

The two groups are headed by the veteran Republican operative Brian O. Walsh, who also attended Wednesday’s dinner.

The gathering was hosted by C. Boyden Gray, a Washington lawyer who served in top positions in both George Bush’s and George W. Bush’s presidential administrations, and who is known for hosting gatherings of the capital’s Republican elite.

It was a rare night on the town for a president who mostly remains cloistered in the White House when he is in Washington, and who, when he does dine out, usually goes to the steakhouse in the hotel he owns five blocks away.

The evening also highlights the extent to which Mr. Trump has embraced features of Washington politics that he denounced on the campaign trail. He had pledged to “drain the swamp” of the city’s permanent political class and to forsake the contributions of wealthy donors, who he said had too much power.

Mr. Gray could not be reached for comment. Mr. Walsh and Donald Trump Jr. did not respond to requests for comment.

Lindsay Walters, a deputy White House press secretary, stressed that the dinner was not a fund-raiser.

“Tonight the president had dinner with a small group of supporters at the private residence of C. Boyden Gray,” she said on Wednesday night.

Even if no money was collected Wednesday night, the gathering was part of a fund-raising campaign by the two groups that has ramped up in recent weeks with assistance from Mr. Trump, his family and top officials in his administration.

Vice President Mike Pence spoke last month at an America First round table in Dallas, and Donald Trump Jr. has attended events for the groups, as well.

Secretary of Energy Rick Perry spoke Tuesday afternoon at a round table in Houston, which was attended by Mr. Bailey and a number of prominent Texas donors, including the Dallas investor Doug Deason.

“They’re making a pretty serious push,” said Mr. Deason, who is on the finance committee of the America First groups. “It’s an all-out effort to knock it out of the park with this super PAC.”

Mr. Deason explained that the groups are careful not to ask for contributions, or to discuss spending strategies, in the presence of administration officials.

That is because officials are barred by campaign finance rules from coordinating spending strategies with — or raising large sums for — entities like the America First groups, which, unlike campaign and party committees, are not subject to federal contribution limits.

Instead, Mr. Deason said, the administration officials have generally discussed Mr. Trump’s agenda and answered questions from the assembled donors. Mr. Perry, for instance, was asked about the president’s proposed tariffs on steel and aluminum by donors who were concerned about them.

After such events, representatives from the America First groups will follow up with donors to solicit contributions — a common fund-raising strategy for super PACs and other unlimited-money political groups.

Someone with direct knowledge of the America First groups said they had been telling donors that they had already raised $40 million and intended to raise another $60 million for their 2018 efforts.

A majority of the funds raised so far have been collected by America First Policies, a nonprofit group registered under a section of the tax code — 501(c)(4) — that allows it to shield most information about its finances, including the identity of its donors.

America First Action, on the other hand, is required to disclose its donors and expenditures on a periodic basis to the Federal Election Commission.

The group’s most recent report revealed that it raised $4 million last year, with half of that coming from the Los Angeles developer Geoffrey H. Palmer. An additional $1 million came from the Murray Energy Corporation, a coal company based in Ohio that has assiduously courted Mr. Trump as it pressed the new administration to repeal President Barack Obama’s climate change policies intended to shut down old coal-burning power plants.

America First Action spent tens of thousands of dollars at the Trump International Hotel on events for donors, and also paid tens of thousands of dollars each to firms associated with Mr. Trump’s first campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski, and his newly named re-election campaign manager, Brad Parscale, among other loyalists.

Democratic leaders have pressed one of their most prolific donors privately, urging him to tone down his campaign calling for President Trump’s impeachment. They have prodded him in public, declaring on television that they consider impeachment an impractical idea. And party strategists have pleaded with Democratic candidates for Congress not to join in.

But that donor, Tom Steyer, a California billionaire, has only intensified his attacks in recent weeks. Buoyed by tens of millions of dollars in television commercials — financed out of his own pocket and starring him — Mr. Steyer has become one of Mr. Trump’s most visible antagonists, firing up angry Democrats and unnerving his own party with the ferocity of his efforts.

Mr. Steyer is likely to unsettle national Democrats further in the coming weeks, with a new phase of his campaign aimed at pushing lawmakers in solidly liberal seats to endorse impeachment. Having collected more than four million email addresses from people who signed an impeachment petition, Mr. Steyer has begun prodding those voters to call congressional offices and lobby them for support.

In an interview, Mr. Steyer was dismissive of party leaders’ reservations about making impeachment an issue in 2018. He described Mr. Trump as lawless and unfit for office; acknowledging the practical obstacles to impeachment, he said raising a popular outcry was a necessary first step.

“We’re just telling the truth to the American people, and it’s an important truth,” Mr. Steyer said of his campaign. “And if you don’t think it’s politically convenient for you, that’s too bad.”

Already, Democrats acknowledge that Mr. Steyer has helped force impeachment into mainstream conversation, playing to a liberal base that has cheered confrontational tactics like the three-day government shutdown. While Democrats intend to run on a fiercely anti-Trump message this year, party leaders envision a campaign of broad attacks on the president’s economic agenda rather than a blunt-force impeachment pledge. There is no realistic chance of impeaching Mr. Trump while Republicans control Congress, and Democrats from moderate and conservative districts fear the idea could alienate voters otherwise likely to vote their way in November.

But the Democratic base, enraged by Mr. Trump and frustrated by party leaders counseling restraint, appears enthusiastically open to seeking the president’s removal. A handful of Democratic congressional candidates — in crucial states like California, Florida, Nevada and Wisconsin — have vowed to pursue impeachment if they are elected. That number is likely to grow during the coming season of Democratic primaries, in which throngs of candidates are competing for the affection of liberal voters who loathe the president.

Mary Barzee Flores, a former circuit court judge who is one of more than a half-dozen Democrats seeking a Republican-held seat in Miami, said the issue had plainly resonated with voters in the area, where Mr. Trump is unpopular. Ms. Barzee Flores, who endorsed impeachment in a newspaper column last fall, said Mr. Trump’s firing of James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, had been a breaking point for her. She is preparing to launch impeachment-themed TV ads of her own.

“Like a lot of people, I am appalled by the president’s conduct in office,” Ms. Barzee Flores said in an interview, adding: “I do believe that there’s a basis to impeach the president, and I do believe that he’s got to go. He’s dangerous.”

But Ms. Barzee Flores said Democrats should not treat impeachment as a singular issue in 2018, over matters like health care and immigration. “There are other issues that are pressing,” she said. “More pressing, even.”

For Mr. Steyer, however, impeachment is a singular cause. And he is no easy character for Democrats to ignore: From his headquarters in a San Francisco office tower, Mr. Steyer, 60, has built a sprawling political operation with more than 200 staff members around the country, mostly employed by his flagship group, NextGen America, which focuses on climate change.

Mr. Steyer has amassed a mixed win-loss record over the years, along with a mercurial reputation among Democratic strategists. But he is nearly alone among Democratic donors in his willingness to spend money on a titanic scale. In 2016, Mr. Steyer spent more than $90 million supporting Democrats, and his checkbook may be critical to their efforts to capture Congress.

Separate from the impeachment drive, Mr. Steyer, who made his fortune as a hedge fund investor, announced this month that he would spend $30 million on mobilizing young voters in 2018. He has already quietly funneled nearly $2 million into a union-backed effort to capture seven Republican-held seats in California, three strategists directly involved in the campaign said.

But on impeachment, Democrats in Congress have made no secret of their skepticism. Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer, the Democratic minority leaders in the House and Senate, have called it a premature proposal. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a hero of the left, said Democrats should avoid “jumping the gun” on such a drastic action. And the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has urged candidates to use more measured language, endorsing investigations of Mr. Trump but avoiding an impeachment pledge.

Ms. Pelosi, who has a longstanding relationship with Mr. Steyer and hosted him in her private box at the Democrats’ 2016 convention, conveyed her concerns to him directly. She told Mr. Steyer in a phone call last fall that impeachment was a profoundly divisive issue and stressed that other matters, like the Republican-backed tax overhaul, were more urgent, according to four people briefed on the conversation.

But Mr. Steyer insisted that Mr. Trump had more than met the standard for being removed from office, and said his ads were electrifying the Democratic base. The conversation was cordial, according to associates of both Democrats, but neither gave ground.

Mr. Steyer, his friends say, has been more pointed in private, appearing indifferent or even emboldened by the criticism of Democrats in Washington. Two of his friends, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said Mr. Steyer has taken to declaring that when Ms. Pelosi or Mr. Schumer is complaining, he knows he is on the right track.

But Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer are not alone in their reservations. An impeachment resolution introduced last year by Representative Al Green, a Democrat of Texas, garnered only 58 votes in December. (When Mr. Green pushed for a vote for the second time in January, that number rose only slightly, to 66.)

Even if the House did vote to impeach Mr. Trump — perhaps under possible Democratic control in 2019 — it would take a two-thirds vote of the Senate to remove him from office — a threshold that could only be met with the help of a sizable number of Republicans. That appears an extremely remote possibility.

Representative Brendan Boyle, a Democrat of Pennsylvania who voted against the impeachment resolution, warned that pressing now could backfire badly. Voicing the exasperation of many of his colleagues, Mr. Boyle called the Steyer campaign a fruitless exercise.

“I just don’t see how the ads achieve anything,” Mr. Boyle said. “To do this now, before Special Counsel Mueller finishes the investigation, only complicates our job if Mueller finds something that warrants impeachment, which I believe is a real possibility.”

The Democratic base appears more receptive: Seventy percent of Democrats favor impeachment hearings, according to an NBC News/The Wall Street Journal poll published last month. Overall, 41 percent of Americans support impeachment hearings — an unusually high number for a president in his first year, but well short of an electoral majority.

If Mr. Steyer’s focus on impeachment is new, his status as one of the most mercurial figures in Democratic politics is not. He has pursued a number of political adventures over the last few years, often hiring expensive consultants and spending heavily on advertising, and then abruptly moving on to an entirely new project.

Last year, Mr. Steyer embarked on a kind of political star search, gathering national political strategists, including top advisers to Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, to map out a run for governor or Senate. After briefly threatening to challenge Senator Dianne Feinstein, a fellow Democrat, Mr. Steyer abandoned plans to run for office in 2018.

Former Representative Ellen Tauscher, a Northern California Democrat, said Mr. Steyer had plainly embraced a provocateur’s role instead of putting his name on the ballot this year. But Ms. Tauscher, who leads a “super PAC” targeting California Republicans, warned that voters might balk at electing a Congress bent on driving Mr. Trump from office.

“You can’t have a conversation about impeachment until you take the House back, and so this is a little bit like somebody who’s jumped ahead,” Ms. Tauscher said, adding of Mr. Steyer: “I think, to a certain extent, Tom knows this.”

WASHINGTON — When the White House wants to gather evangelicals for one of its many issue-specific “listening sessions,” the Rev. Johnnie Moore is often one of the first to hear.

It wasn’t always clear that Mr. Moore, a 34-year-old Southern Baptist minister who was a co-chairman of the Trump campaign’s evangelical advisory board, would be a frequent White House guest. Some critics, and even some evangelicals, wondered whether conservative Christians’ sometimes uneasy alliance with the Trump campaign was a marriage of convenience that would be abandoned after Inauguration Day. But one year in, conservative religious leaders are hailing the president’s actions in office.

“This White House, the front door is open to evangelicals,” said Mr. Moore, who estimates that he has visited at least 20 times since Mr. Trump took office, averaging nearly once every other week. “It hasn’t been evangelicals reaching into the White House. It’s been the White House reaching out to evangelicals. Not a day goes by when there aren’t a dozen evangelical leaders in the White House for something.”

This week will be a culmination of those ties. On Thursday, Mr. Moore will join what he calls the “Super Bowl for peacemakers” here: the annual National Prayer Breakfast, where around 3,000 clergy members, politicians and business leaders will eat, network and listen to speeches, including one from President Trump.

Mr. Trump will stand before an audience that has cheered the president’s first-year agenda as its own: announcing that the American Embassy in Israel would move to Jerusalem, anointing a national “prayer Sunday,” appointing Neil M. Gorsuch to the Supreme Court, signing anti-abortion legislation, opening a “conscience and religious freedom division” at the Department of Health and Human Services and fighting to end the Johnson Amendment, which threatens religious organizations with the loss of their tax-exempt status if they endorse political candidates.

Many evangelicals did not see such a list of accomplishments as inevitable. Mr. Trump’s formal evangelical advisory board ended with the campaign. But his continued attention to evangelical causes is not a coincidence. Mr. Moore and others have helped remnants of the board remain active in the White House, providing the administration with a constellation of religious figures to lend its platform gravitas among evangelicals.

Mr. Moore, a former Liberty University vice president who now lives in California, is one of around a half-dozen original members of the evangelical advisory group who pays regular visits to the White House, which can start with policy briefings from West Wing staff and agency officials and end with impromptu visits to the Oval Office, where Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence will banter, then pray, with them.

The group, which also includes Tim Clinton, Robert Jeffress, Darrell Scott, Samuel Rodriguez and Paula White, who has been called Mr. Trump’s personal “spiritual adviser,” is a frequent and influential voice in the ears of senior administration officials.

Jennifer Korn, who as a deputy director of the public liaison office manages contact between the White House and faith groups, sends out invitations to policy briefings and the “listening sessions.”

Ms. Korn invites senior West Wing advisers such as Jared Kushner, Ivanka Trump and Kellyanne Conway to visit the groups, which range from 20 to 100 guests and are often tied to specific faith-related legislation, executive orders and court appointments. Ms. Trump recently sat in on a meeting with female faith leaders that Mr. Moore and Mr. Jeffress attended.

“We are the front door to the White House,” Ms. Korn said, echoing Mr. Moore’s words.

Mr. Jeffress, another core member from the campaign board, has been one of Mr. Trump’s most reliable evangelical advocates, regularly appearing with him in Trump Tower in New York and then in the White House.

“I can’t look into the president’s heart to know if he really personally believes these positions he’s advocating, or whether he thinks it’s smart politics to embrace them because of the strong evangelical influence in the country,” Mr. Jeffress said in an interview. “But frankly, I don’t care. As a Christian, I’m seeing these policies embraced and enacted, and he’s doing that.”

Mr. Jeffress, who once said President Barack Obama’s politics could lead to the rise of the Antichrist, said the issues that evangelicals discuss at the White House “go beyond what most assume,” including opioid abuse and criminal justice overhaul. He and Mr. Moore are sympathetic to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, known as DACA, that shields young undocumented immigrants, which is often viewed as a progressive cause.

When he is in the Oval Office with faith leaders, Mr. Moore said, they try to “personalize” issues for Mr. Trump, including in a recent discussion on DACA, when the group told the president that he should view the issue as a father and grandfather.

Mr. Moore, who has spent time in Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Iraq, Bahrain and Israel speaking out against religious persecution, said that evangelical advocacy in the White House also helped expedite the confirmation of former Gov. Sam Brownback of Kansas as ambassador for international religious freedom, a post for which he and the core group of evangelical voices in the White House had long pushed.

Evangelicals voted heavily in Mr. Trump’s favor in the presidential election and, polls show, continue to back him.

“Evangelicals were so great to me,” Mr. Trump said last year.

Yet the symbiosis between conservative Christians and Mr. Trump was never perfect, and some of that tension has lingered into his presidency. The Rev. A. R. Bernard, the pastor of the Christian Cultural Center in Brooklyn and a member of the campaign board, announced that he was no longer associating with the White House evangelical group after Mr. Trump’s failure to condemn white supremacists who marched in Charlottesville, Va., in August.

Mr. Bernard, who said he had made at least four visits to the White House, saw Mr. Trump as largely indifferent to faith leaders’ to-do list.

“There was nothing hidden. He wanted that voting bloc. He wanted their votes,” Mr. Bernard said of Mr. Trump’s engagement with evangelicals during the campaign. “It was transactional. He wanted to do whatever he thought would get those votes.”

When reports emerged last month that a pornographic-film actress was paid $130,000 to keep quiet about her claims of an affair she had with Mr. Trump, it further complicated his relationship with evangelicals, who maintained that it is not the responsibility of the president to live a pure life.

“He’s not the pastor of our country,” Franklin Graham, a member of the camp advisory board, said on television. Tony Perkins, the president of the evangelical Family Research Council, said that evangelicals would give Mr. Trump a “mulligan.”

Mr. Jeffress agreed.

“Evangelical support for President Trump has always been based on his policies, not on his personal piety,” he said.

Mr. Scott, a pastor at the New Spirit Revival Center in the Cleveland area, is one of the early members of the campaign advisory board who continues to visit Mr. Trump in the White House. He said Mr. Trump’s interest in evangelicalism stemmed not from opportunism but from wanting to atone for a life largely devoid of conventional religiosity.

Mr. Scott said that the president’s bluster was withheld when he visited with faith leaders, and that Mr. Trump would often apologize if he cursed in front of them.

“I find his reverence for clergy very old-school,” Mr. Scott said. “When he’s in the room with clergy, he adopts the position of the lesser. He seems to regard the clergy as the greater.”

Mr. Trump has the view of “while you guys were off pursuing a higher calling, I was off building buildings,” Mr. Scott said. “Now it’s time for me to catch up.”

This week, as he shuffled from meeting to meeting and dinner to dinner ahead of the prayer breakfast, Mr. Moore said he hoped evangelicals’ new clout in Washington would give them a new face.

“People sort of think of evangelicals as these bumpkins. That always drives me crazy,” Mr. Moore said before he dashed out of a downtown Washington cafe. “I think we are far more informed than people give us credit for.”