WASHINGTON — President Obama on Wednesday said he hoped and expected that the Senate would consider the Supreme Court nominee he selects once he makes his choice, despite a vow by Republicans this week that they would not even meet with his candidate.

“I recognize that the politics are hard for them, because the easier thing to do is to give in to the most extreme voices within their party and stand pat and do nothing, but that’s not our job,” Mr. Obama told reporters in the Oval Office after a meeting with King Abdullah II of Jordan. “Our job is to fulfill our constitutional duties.”

Mr. Obama predicted that Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, and other Republicans would not be able to sustain their refusal to acknowledge or act on his nominee, adding that in his private conversations with some of them on the matter, it was clear to him that they were not comfortable with that stance.

“They’re pretty sheepish about it,” the president said.

He added, “I think it will be very difficult for Mr. McConnell to explain, if the public concludes that this person is very well qualified, that the Senate should stand in the way simply for political reasons.”

Earlier Wednesday, Mr. Obama wrote in a post on Scotusblog, a site that covers the Supreme Court, that he was seeking a nominee with “life experience earned outside the classroom and the courtroom,” reaffirming his intent to fill the court’s vacancy in the coming weeks in the face of increasingly broad Republican resistance.

Mr. Obama offered no specifics about his much-speculated-upon shortlist of candidates, giving only what he called “spoiler-free insights” into how he was choosing a successor to Justice Antonin Scalia.

The candidate would be “eminently qualified,” Mr. Obama wrote, and someone who “recognizes the limits of the judiciary’s role,” without an ideological agenda. The president also said he would select a jurist who had more than just a theoretical grasp of legal principles.

“There will be cases in which a judge’s analysis necessarily will be shaped by his or her own perspective, ethics, and judgment,” Mr. Obama wrote, adding that he was seeking someone with “a keen understanding that justice is not about abstract legal theory, nor some footnote in a dusty casebook.”

“It’s the kind of life experience earned outside the classroom and the courtroom; experience that suggests he or she views the law not only as an intellectual exercise, but also grasps the way it affects the daily reality of people’s lives in a big, complicated democracy, and in rapidly changing times,” the president wrote.

Mr. Obama made no mention of the bitter partisan battle that has emerged around the Supreme Court vacancy, which took a remarkable turn on Tuesday when Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee said that they would not even meet the president’s eventual nominee and that they had no intention of holding confirmation hearings before the next president takes office in January.

“As senators prepare to fulfill their constitutional responsibility to consider the person I appoint, I hope they’ll move quickly to debate and then confirm this nominee so that the court can continue to serve the American people at full strength,” Mr. Obama wrote.

SPRINGFIELD, Ill. — President Obama on Wednesday came to the place where he began his historic campaign for the White House nine years ago to the day, to reckon with perhaps his presidency’s greatest failure: his unfulfilled promise to lift American politics above toxic partisan divisions.

Speaking to a raucous joint session of the Illinois General Assembly at the state Capitol, Mr. Obama said, “The tone of our politics hasn’t gotten better since I was inaugurated; in fact, it has gotten worse.”

He continued: “One of my few regrets is my inability to reduce the polarization and meanness in our politics. I was able to be part of that here, and yet I couldn’t translate it the way I wanted to, to our politics in Washington.”

The president’s address, delivered a few blocks from the Old State Capitol, where he declared his candidacy on Feb. 10, 2007, was an elaboration of the themes he sounded in his State of the Union address in January, when he said the nation’s prosperity, even its very survival, hinged on restoring some comity to the bitter, dysfunctional political culture in Washington.

“It turns folks off,” Mr. Obama said of the atmosphere in Washington. “It discourages them; it makes them cynical. And when that happens, more powerful and extreme voices fill the void.”

He added, “What can we do, all of us together, to make our politics better?”

The speech came at a crucial moment in the contest to succeed him, one day after primary voters in New Hampshire awarded thumping victories to Donald J. Trump and Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, insurgents who are challenging the political orthodoxy of the parties whose nomination they seek. Mr. Trump, with his harsh statements about Muslims and Hispanics, has contributed to the coarsening of the political dialogue that Mr. Obama laments.

The stinging defeat of Hillary Clinton, though expected, is something of a rebuke for his administration, given that she was Mr. Obama’s first secretary of state and is running as the custodian of his legacy.

Mr. Obama did not comment on the New Hampshire results in his speech, though he made oblique references to the campaign. Politics, he noted, needed to move from being “less of a spectacle and more of a battle of ideas.” He described himself as a progressive Democrat, winning an enthusiastic round of applause from a chamber dominated by members of his party.

“We’ve always gone through periods when our democracy seems stuck,” Mr. Obama said. “When that happens, we have to find a new way to do business.”

This was the first stop in an unusually long, six-day domestic swing for the president. On Thursday, he will attend several Democratic fund-raisers in California before traveling to Rancho Mirage, where he plans to spend three days playing golf and will then host a summit meeting of leaders from the Association of Southeast Nations at the Sunnylands estate.

As he did on that frigid morning when he began his long-shot candidacy for president, Mr. Obama invoked Abraham Lincoln, his political hero, who condemned slavery in a speech at the Old State Capitol in 1858 by declaring, “A house divided against itself cannot stand.”

On Wednesday, Mr. Obama spoke at the current state Capitol, which stands as a monument to the bitter partisan divisions that the president has struggled fruitlessly to close. The state’s Republican governor, Bruce Rauner, is locked in an impasse over the budget with the Democrats, who control the General Assembly, leaving Illinois in limbo. Public services have been maintained through stopgap funding.

Mr. Obama did not wade explicitly into that dispute, though he talked about the virtues of passing budgets. Instead, he offered recollections of his own introduction to the folkways of the Illinois Legislature — how one older lawmaker asked him if his last name was Irish; how another praised him for a speech that he said “changed a lot of minds” but not a lot of votes.

“We wouldn’t bend our deepest-held principles, but we were willing to forge compromises to achieve our goals,” he said. “If you were willing to listen, it was possible to bridge a lot of differences.”

At one point, a Democratic lawmaker, Ken Dunkin, cried out, “That’s right!” when Mr. Obama said that a person who voted against his party should not be branded a sellout. Mr. Dunkin missed a crucial vote when Democrats voted to override a veto of a labor contract by Mr. Rauner. “We’ll talk later, Ken,” Mr. Obama said to laughter and applause.

The president spoke out against gerrymandering, drawing applause from Republicans, who have recently been subjected to the practice in Illinois.

Mr. Obama spoke about his life as a young lawmaker in Springfield with an affection that he has never evinced for his brief time as a senator on Capitol Hill. He cited times when Democrats and Republicans in Springfield reached across the aisle, singling out his work on an ethics reform bill with Kirk Dillard, who was a Republican state senator. Mr. Dillard later took part in a round-table interview with The Chicago Tribune, along with two former Democratic state senators, Larry Walsh and Denny Jacobs.

Mr. Obama served three terms in the Illinois Senate, from 1997 to 2004, and at one point mounted an unsuccessful bid for the House of Representatives. In 2004, he won a Senate seat in Washington, which he barely warmed before beginning his bid for the White House in the Illinois capital.

“It was here in Springfield,” he said of starting his campaign, “where I saw all that is America converge: farmers and teachers, businessmen and laborers, all of them with a story to tell, all of them seeking a seat at the table, all of them clamoring to be heard.”

Wednesday was rich in memories. Shortly after arriving here, Mr. Obama stopped at the Feed Store, a deli across the street from the Old State Capitol, which he had frequented as a state senator. The president, accompanied by two longtime aides, David Axelrod and Valerie Jarrett, shook hands with customers and employees, stopping to chat with a 6-year-old boy, Grant Moser, who was perched in front of a slice of cake.

Back outside, Mr. Obama shook hands with people shivering in front of the Old State Capitol, a Greek Revival-style building, lightly dusted in snow. He was clutching a white paper bag containing what he said was barley soup. At one point, he stopped to hug Dave Sullivan, who had been Republican state senator. The temperature was hovering at 19 degrees; Mr. Axelrod insisted that it was “balmy” compared with that day nine years ago.

HAVANA —  President Obama stood beside President Raúl Castro on Monday and declared a “new day” of openness between the United States and Cuba, but old grievances and disputes over human rights marred a groundbreaking meeting and underscored lingering impediments to a historic thaw.

The two presidents, meeting at the Revolutionary Palace for the first such official contact between their two governments in more than a half-century, engaged in a frank and at times awkward exchange with each other and reporters. Mr. Obama at turns prodded Mr. Castro to submit to questions during an extraordinary 55-minute news conference.

Standing at lecterns in a cavernous granite-walled hall in front of Cuban and American flags, the two leaders traded criticism of each other’s countries even as both said they were committed to continuing on the path to normalizing relations.

“Give me a list of the political prisoners and I will release them immediately,” Mr. Castro said, asked by a reporter about dissidents his government has arrested. “Just mention the list. What political prisoners?”

Human rights groups quickly produced rosters, distributed over email and social media, of people they said had been imprisoned in Cuba for demonstrating against or otherwise challenging Mr. Castro’s government.

Mr. Castro sought to turn the human rights criticism on the United States, arguing that countries that do not provide universal health care, education and equal pay are in no position to lecture Cuba. He also said the United States military base at Guantánamo Bay should be returned to Cuba.

“It’s not correct to ask me about political prisoners,” Mr. Castro said.

Mr. Obama said he had pressed the Cuban president in their meeting over Cuba’s treatment of dissidents and reaffirmed that he would meet with some dissidents privately on Tuesday. But he also assured Mr. Castro that the United States had no intention of dictating his country’s future.

“I affirm that Cuba’s destiny will not be decided by the United States or any other nation,” Mr. Obama said. “Cuba is sovereign and rightly has great pride, and the future of Cuba will be decided by Cubans, not by anybody else.”

The president went a step further, in comments likely to be seized upon by critics of his push to pursue an opening with Cuba, conceding that the United States must face up to the criticisms Mr. Castro unleashed.

“I actually welcome President Castro commenting on some of the areas where he feels that we’re falling short, because I think we should not be immune or afraid of criticism or discussion as well,” Mr. Obama said.

The apparent rapport between the two presidents at the news conference was a striking display of warmth on a day that was dominated by the symbolism of the first tentative openings between Cuba and the United States since the Cold War.

Mr. Obama said he expected to see the lifting of the United States’ trade embargo of Cuba, something Mr. Castro called “the most important obstacle to our economic development and the well-being of the Cuban people.”

“We agree that a long and complex path still lies ahead,” Mr. Castro said, smiling warmly at Mr. Obama at times, even when the American president teased his Cuban host about the Castro family’s penchant for stem-winding speeches. “What is most important is that we have started taking the first steps to build a new type of relationship, one that has never existed between Cuba and the United States.”

There were awkward moments as well, with both presidents pushing each other outside their comfort zones. Mr. Obama, who was determined to mark the occasion with a news conference — something Mr. Castro seldom if ever does — prodded the Cuban leader to submit to journalists’ questions.

After Mr. Obama finished answering a question from Andrea Mitchell, the NBC News correspondent, he urged Mr. Castro to do so as well.

“It’s up to you,” Mr. Obama told Mr. Castro. “She’s one of our most esteemed journalists in America, and I’m sure she’d appreciate just a short, brief answer.”

Mr. Castro did answer Ms. Mitchell’s query about human rights, scolding her that the question was unfair.

After the news conference, the two men joined hands in what appeared to be a cross between a handshake and the raising of a revolutionary fist; Mr. Obama held out his arm awkwardly and it ended up as neither.

Mr. Obama began his day at the memorial to the Cuban journalist and poet José Martí, whose ideals are invoked with zeal in Miami and Havana.

A Cuban military band played “The Star-Spangled Banner” under a billowing Cuban flag as the American president and a Cuban Politburo member appeared side by side, flanked in the distance by huge sculptured portraits of Che Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos, the revolutionaries who were intimates of Fidel Castro.

During his carefully stage-managed visit this week, Mr. Obama does not plan to meet with Fidel Castro, 89, the former president, who is Raúl’s older brother.

But he said in an interview with ABC News on Monday that he would be “happy” to meet at some point with the elder Mr. Castro. “If his health was good enough that I could meet with him, I’d be happy to meet with him, just as a symbol of the end of the — or the closing of this Cold War chapter in our mutual histories,” Mr. Obama said.

In Havana on Monday, many Cubans still seemed uncertain about whether they had permission to try to see Mr. Obama, never mind express a point of view. Cubans all over the city seemed to be constantly asking where Mr. Obama would be.

In Parque Central in Havana, Mr. Obama’s visit touched off talk of politics, freedom, race and the scene of an American president at Revolution Plaza near an image of Guevara.

“I see the Cubans in the United States talking bad about Obama because he was standing with the image of Che behind him,” said Alfredo Calderon, 83, a retired musician who now works as a custodian. “I don’t see it as bad.”

He continued: “I have to admit, I am 83 years old, and I have seen a lot happen. I did not think I would see that.”

In a nation that stifles dissent, the men in the square were quick to shout out the kinds of things they hope Mr. Obama will bring to Cuba. “Freedom of speech!” one man shouted. “Freedom of expression!” another echoed.

“We want change,” said Angel Maturrell, a small-business owner. “Change. Change. Change. All kinds. Any kind. We are tired of waiting.”

A few blocks away, Cubans and foreigners found themselves running into American lawmakers and V.I.P.s touring the city.

Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont was spotted by the cathedral; Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York was also easy to find. Wearing a seersucker suit and a Tampa Bay Rays baseball cap, Mr. Rangel said he could not have been happier. He spent decades in Congress working to end the embargo.

He said he was confident that restored relations would yield benefits for both nations.

“I never knew we could bring such a crack in the wall,” Mr. Rangel said. “We’re creating the right conditions for when change really comes.”

WASHINGTON — Senate Republican leaders said Tuesday that there would be no confirmation hearings, no vote, not even a courtesy meeting with President Obama’s nominee to replace Justice Antonin Scalia, all but slamming shut any prospects for an election-year Supreme Court confirmation.

Together with a written vow from Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee that they would not hold any confirmation hearings, the pledge was the clearest statement yet from the Senate’s majority party that it would do everything it can to prevent Mr. Obama from shifting the ideological balance of the nation’s high court. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, urged Mr. Obama to reconsider even submitting a name.

“This nomination will be determined by whoever wins the presidency in the polls,” Mr. McConnell said. “I agree with the Judiciary Committee’s recommendation that we not have hearings. In short, there will not be action taken.”

Their first full day back at the Capitol since Justice Scalia’s death afforded Senate Republicans the opportunity to unite around a message and strategy to thwart Mr. Obama. Huddles in Mr. McConnell’s Capitol suite and a lunchtime conclave appeared to stem any wavering and push Republican troops into line. And they had the ammunition they needed in a June 1992 floor speech by Joseph R. Biden Jr., then a senator, urging President George Bush against any nomination to the Supreme Court until after that year’s presidential election.

The forceful moves that followed, even before Mr. Obama put forward a choice for the court, has the Senate into unprecedented territory: Senators meet with high-court nominees as matters of courtesy and cordiality, but even that tradition has been rejected.

“I don’t know the purpose of such a visit,” Mr. McConnell said. “I would not be inclined to take that myself.”

Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the No. 2 Republican and a member of the Judiciary Committee, concurred. “I don’t see the point of going through the motions if we know what the outcome is going to be,” he said.

Battles over the Supreme Court have grown increasingly contentious since the 1960s, when Republicans and conservative Democrats blocked President Lyndon B. Johnson’s nomination of Justice Abe Fortas to become chief justice, congressional historians said. But the refusal to grant a nominee any consideration was a startling turn.

“What is remarkable is the opposition is not to a particular candidate or even to the notion Obama will only nominate someone too extreme, but that he should not have any right to have a nomination considered,” said Julian E. Zelizer, a professor of history and public affairs at Princeton University.

“This is not even like the drawn-out confirmation process that President Wilson faced with Louis Brandeis,” Professor Zelizer said. “This is the argument that nothing should even be considered.”

The White House on Tuesday warned that the Republicans were risking an extraordinary escalation of partisan rancor in a process that should be free of it.

“This would be a historic and unprecedented acceleration of politicizing a branch of government that’s supposed to be insulated from politics,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, who said on Twitter that every Supreme Court nominee since 1875 had received a hearing or a vote.

Senate Democrats lashed out but seemed powerless to force Republicans to alter course.

“The Senate, the world’s greatest deliberative body?” the minority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, asked, railing against the Republicans. “They’re not going to deliberate at all.”

Mr. Reid asserted that Senate Republicans were taking direction from the party’s leading presidential candidates — “It’s what Donald Trump and Ted Cruz want.” He also took aim at Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the chairman of the Judiciary Committee, who has the power to hold confirmation hearings but signed the letter to Mr. McConnell on Tuesday, along with every other committee Republican, saying no such proceedings would take place until a new president is in the White House.

“It appears that Senator Grassley’s going to follow through on this plan,” Mr. Reid said. “He will go down in history as the most obstructionist Judiciary chair in the history of our country.”

While Democrats said they had so far not come up with any parliamentary tactic that might force Mr. McConnell’s hand, they began laying the groundwork for an aggressive effort to keep public attention focused on the court fight, at least until Mr. Obama announced a nominee.

The Republicans’ refusal to even meet with a candidate raised the prospect of some dramatic confrontations as Democrats usher a nominee through the halls of Congress.

But Republicans seemed emboldened in large measure because of Mr. Biden’s 1992 floor speech, which has become a staple of their talking points.

Mr. Biden, now the vice president, said his words were taken out of context, and he issued a statement boasting of his record in confirming federal judges while the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee. Aides to Mr. Biden also insisted on Tuesday that he had been warning against filling a vacancy created by a voluntary resignation of a justice, not by an unexpected death. In any event, no such vacancy occurred.

Told that Democrats were asserting that such past statements were irrelevant, Mr. McConnell and other Republican leaders laughed.

Mr. Obama “has every right to nominate someone,” Mr. McConnell said Tuesday on the Senate floor. “Even if doing so will inevitably plunge our nation into another bitter and avoidable struggle, that certainly is his right. Even if he never expects that nominee to be actually confirmed but rather to wield as an election cudgel, he certainly has the right to do that.”

Mr. McConnell added: “But he also has the right to make a different choice. He can let the people decide and make this an actual legacy-building moment rather than just another campaign roadshow.”

As Republicans made their intentions clear, the White House was digging in for what could be a long fight, tying the coming confirmation battle to other issues on which Congress has stymied Mr. Obama’s agenda.

“There is this emerging trend in Congress that has worsened in just the last few weeks, where Congress isn’t simply in a position of just saying ‘no,’ Congress is actually refusing to engage,” said Mr. Earnest, the press secretary. He cited Republicans’ refusal on Tuesday to consider the president’s plan for shutting the United States military prison at Guantánamo Bay, their inaction on a new authorization for military force against the Islamic State, and their unwillingness to convene the customary annual hearing on the president’s budget plan.

“They’re doing just about everything, except for fulfilling their basic constitutional responsibilities,” Mr. Earnest said.

Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, said he had urged the White House to select a centrist candidate with impeccable credentials for the court. He urged Republicans to allow the process to move forward, and said he feared the breakdown that could result should they ultimately refuse.

Holding a confirmation hearing “shows respect and deference to the constitutional role of the presidency,” he said. If Republicans refuse, he continued, “it would be just one more reminder to the average American and to the world that our carefully constructed constitutional framework is at risk of failure.”

HIALEAH, Fla. —  As he took a final bite of his ham croqueta at Morro Castle cafeteria, Carlos Sanchez distilled the significance of President Obama’s visit to Cuba into one word: hope.

“Any change is good, because it couldn’t get worse than what it was before,” said Mr. Sanchez, 50, who arrived here from Havana when he was 15. “Trying is better than nothing. But it takes time for people to change. They don’t want to change. They have to be forced to change.”

In Miami, the United States’ most Cuban city, where many residents have relatives in Cuba, most Cuban-Americans welcomed Mr. Obama’s journey to the island as the latest breakthrough in the stalemate between the two countries. It is a position that not long ago would have seemed as unimaginable as Monday’s historic presidential meeting of the once-avowed Cold War enemies.

Nowhere are United States-Cuba politics more personal than in this Miami suburb, home to longtime Cuban exiles and freshly arrived Cuban immigrants, former political prisoners who have never returned to the island and apolitical cafeteria and supermarket workers who go back every chance they get. And while some Cuban-Americans in this area still harbor bitterness and anger toward both the repressive Castro government and Mr. Obama’s outstretched hand, many more see the shift and the visit as a logical development that stands to benefit the Cuban people in the long run.

Far-reaching change on the island is still elusive. But even minor change in Cuba, a country seemingly frozen in time, reverberates in ways it may not in other places. There are cracks now in communism’s grip on the island, seen in newly available Internet access, the growing number of small private businesses, and the possibility of travel for generations of Americans who knew nothing about Cuba and vice versa. All of that has been felt here, too. Families feel more connected. Relatives here feel more empowered to help relatives there.

Barbara Gonzalez, 54, said her life had long been divided: Half her family is here, and half is in Cuba. To her, what matters after 50 years of hostility between the countries is not political gamesmanship but the chance to help her relatives and the everyday Cuban who hustles to put food on the table and find a job that pays more than a pittance.

“At least in the way people think in Cuba, there has been a change,” said Ms. Gonzalez, a nurse’s assistant who arrived in Hialeah in 2000, as she put butter in her shopping cart at Publix Sabor, a popular supermarket in Florida that offers a large selection of Cuban products.

“Cubans there can now see this other world, this other way of being,” she said. “It’s very important. And it’s good for Americans because they can see the reality of Cuba. They can see that the Cuban people have nothing to do with the government.”

The excitement in Cuba over Mr. Obama’s visit is palpable, she said. “The father of my children, who still lives there, even went to the airport to welcome Obama,” Ms. Gonzalez added.

Here, where life is too busy to pause for even historic moments, the anticipation is less obvious but no less felt by many. “Obama is the best man in the world to have gone there,” she said.

Still, concerns about life in Cuba abound. The path to democracy is plodding, at best. And unabated acts of repression by the government, which played out on Sunday when dissidents were rounded up and detained before Mr. Obama’s visit, are denounced by both opponents and supporters of re-engagement with Cuba. The claim by Raúl Castro, the Cuban president, during a news conference on Monday that Cuba has no political prisoners only inflamed their anger.

Mirell Diaz, 28, sat in her purple uniform waiting for her shift at El Palacio de Los Jugos, where tropical fruits are juiced and Cuban food is piled high, and spoke about her own transformation. Six months ago, she was in Cuba, biding her time until she could leave the island and jump-start her future. Now, she has a job and the hope of bringing relatives here.

Despite Mr. Obama’s visit and the breathless media coverage surrounding it, Ms. Diaz said the changes in Cuba were skin deep: Many freedoms, like the ability to protest, remain taboo, and too many people there still see the United States, not Cuba, as their only hope for a better life, she said. That was underscored over the weekend when nine Cubans died out of a group of 27 trying to reach Florida during a 22-day trip aboard a 30-foot boat.

“Not that much has really changed,” Ms. Diaz said. “I’m not really optimistic. I’m more doubtful.”

And others still feel the old fury and see Mr. Obama’s visit as a betrayal.

A few blocks away at the Publix Sabor, an incensed Margarita Quintero, who arrived here 37 years ago on the Mariel boatlift, gulped down her cafecito and railed against Mr. Obama, his visit to Cuba and the atrocities of President Castro and his brother Fidel.

“It’s an embarrassment,” she said. “All the killing, the way they pushed us out, the hunger, the lack of freedom. Fidelismo is immoral. If he had been one minute in our shoes, he would have never negotiated with the Castro government.”

The visit, she said, made her swear to never vote for a Democrat — not that she ever had much inclination to do so.

“If Hillary Clinton is the winner, Castro will be here, drinking coffee,” she said, gesturing toward the coffee counter. “Never did I imagine the American government would be doing business with the Communist government.”