MUMBAI, India — What’s one of the best ways right now to crack into the Trump family inner circle?

Buy a swanky condominium in India.

Indian developers are promising to fly the first group of buyers in a new Trump Towers project to New York for an event with Donald Trump Jr., according to Indian news reports and a video on one of the developers’ websites.

The glitzy project, which will rise high above Gurugram, a suburb of New Delhi, has become the latest matter to draw questions about the way the Trump family is handling its convergence of business and politics. Reports in the Indian press last week, followed by a Washington Post article on Thursday, have brought new accusations of influence peddling.

But the Indian developers aren’t shying away from their offer to get the first buyers of these condos in front of Donald Trump Jr., President Trump’s oldest child, who helps run the family’s real estate empire.

According to an article by the Press Trust of India that appeared in The Hindustan Times on Jan. 10, Pankaj Bansal, the director of one of the Indian property developers, said: “About an initial 100 buyers will fly to the U.S. where Donald Trump Jr. will host them.”

The new apartment project consists of two, glittering 600-foot towers, among the tallest in the area, featuring apartments that have 22-foot-high ceilings, infinity pools and floor-to-ceiling windows. Picture lots of marble, and lots of glass.

A video included on the website of Tribeca Developers, one of the other Indian partners, features a segment of a news broadcast on the project, reiterating the promise to meet a Trump.

“Buy a flat, meet Trump Jr.!” the video says.

According to Indian news reports, the developers sold 20 units in the first day of sales in January.

Ethicists in the United States expressed concern about the conflict-of-interest issues raised by such inducements.

Norman L. Eisen, who was the ethics counsel for President Barack Obama, said it was “outrageous that access to the Trump family is once again being sold — this time to foreign purchasers, no less.”

He added: “This is a brazen violation of ethics best practices, but not alas a surprising one; it is of a piece with the access to the Trump family that members at domestic Trump properties get for their often steep fees.”

Richard W. Painter, who was the ethics counsel for President George W. Bush, said the India deal was “inappropriate, but legal.”

He urged the Trump children to publicly declare that they will not discuss government policy with customers. “They could dramatically reduce their risk if they categorically make it clear that they will not discuss U.S. government interests with anyone with whom they have an actual or prospective financial relationship,” Mr. Painter said.

The news release for the project, which does not mention the offer of access to Donald Trump Jr., goes on about its various bells and whistles, making the project sound something like a cruise ship — with a golf course attached.

“Residents will enjoy an exclusive collection of super luxury amenities at the Trump Club, including Gurugram’s first temperature-controlled indoor pool, spa, and fitness center with sauna, steam and massage rooms, library, lounge, games room, children’s play area, a fine-dining restaurant and business center, just to name a few,” the developers said.

The building will employ “handpicked staff” to deliver room service and park cars.

The Trump Organization, the family’s business conglomerate, already has several real estate projects in the works in India, including a new apartment building in Kolkata. This will be the fourth Trump Tower in India, which has more Trump branded properties than any other country outside North America, the developers said.

Despite a recent dip in India’s economic growth rate and a slowdown in the construction, auto and textile sectors, the country’s huge market and growing economy have remained a powerful draw for investors.

The new project will be called Trump Towers Delhi NCR. (The NCR refers to the National Capital Region).

It has 250 apartments, costing from around $800,000 to more than $1.5 million. The project is a joint venture between M3M India Pvt. Ltd, a property developer based in Gurugram, and Tribeca Developers, based in Mumbai.

Status seems to be a big draw.

“Trump Towers Delhi NCR will quickly become the most prestigious address in the city,” said Donald Trump Jr., according to the news release on the project.

WASHINGTON — John O. Brennan, the former director of the Central Intelligence Agency, said Wednesday that he thought Russia may have some kind of compromising information on President Trump, setting off furious speculation about whether the former spy chief was basing that assertion on inside information.

In an appearance on Wednesday on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” Mr. Brennan, who served as C.I.A. director from 2013 to 2017, speculated that Russians “may have something on him personally” when he was asked if he thought Mr. Trump was afraid of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia.

“The Russians, I think, have had long experience with Mr. Trump, and may have things that they could expose,” he added.

Mr. Brennan was running the C.I.A. when a salacious dossier surfaced in 2016 that claimed the Russians had compromising information on Mr. Trump. If there were any current or former American officials who might know if there was truth behind the allegations in the dossier, Mr. Brennan would most likely be one of them. And his comments came the day after a phone call Mr. Trump made to Mr. Putin congratulating him for winning an election raised new questions about the president’s relationship with Russia.

As C.I.A. director, Mr. Brennan was never known as particularly chatty around the news media or in public. And since leaving office, Mr. Brennan has taken to starting conversations with journalists by telling them, “I’m not going to be an anonymous source for any stories.”

But last weekend, Mr. Brennan — in response to Mr. Trump’s praise for the firing of the former deputy director of the F.B.I., Andrew G. McCabe — issued a remarkable condemnation of the president. “When the full extent of your venality, moral turpitude, and political corruption becomes known, you will take your rightful place as a disgraced demagogue in the dustbin of history,” Mr. Brennan wrote on Twitter.

Mr. Brennan’s pointed criticism of Mr. Trump on MSNBC and on Twitter was hardly unique. From the outset of the Trump presidency, a litany of retired intelligence officials — the kind of people who have traditionally shied away from criticizing presidents, even in retirement — have come forward to criticize Mr. Trump.

The former officials have included those like Mr. Brennan who served under Democrats and others who served under Republicans, such as Michael Hayden, who ran both the C.I.A. and the National Security Agency under President George W. Bush. Nearly all insist they have no desire to wade into partisan politics, but are genuinely alarmed by what they see as Mr. Trump’s fundamental disregard for the rule of law and his impetuous approach to the nation’s security.

So Mr. Brennan’s latest accusations on Wednesday quickly became fodder for news articles, social media conspiracy theories and hours of speculation on cable news channels. And his remarks seemed to go beyond what he had said publicly in January 2017, five days before he stepped down as C.I.A. director, when he had said the dossier was “unsubstantiated” and his criticism of Mr. Trump was relatively mild.

“I don’t think he has a full appreciation of Russian capabilities, Russia’s intentions, and actions that they are undertaking in many parts of the world,” Mr. Brennan said then in an appearance on Fox News.

But later in the day on Wednesday, Mr. Brennan explained that his comments were speculation based on Mr. Trump’s words and deeds, as well as how Mr. Putin’s government has operated at home and abroad — but not on any inside knowledge.

“I do not know if the Russians have something on Donald Trump that they could use as blackmail,” he said in a written response to questions from The New York Times.

“When asked the question, I have pointed out the perplexing submissiveness of Mr. Trump toward Mr. Putin — despite continued evidence of malign Russian activities,” Mr. Brennan added. “I do not know why he refuses to call out Russia; that is a question that can only be answered by Mr. Trump.”

Along with Mr. Brennan, who is a paid contributor to NBC and MSNBC, other retired officials with contributor deals included James Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence; Steven L. Hall, the former director of Russia operations at the C.I.A.; and Jeremy Bash, a former C.I.A. and Pentagon official.

Mr. Hayden, in an interview, made the case for former intelligence officials becoming talking heads of a sort, saying he believed that it was important for Americans to understand what the country’s intelligence agencies did and did not do. He also said he tries to bring the skills he learned as an intelligence officer to his public appearances, providing analysis based on facts.

“Lord knows CNN has enough people just throwing opinions,” said Mr. Hayden, who is a paid contributor to the network. “I try not working backward from assumption but build forward from data.”

He added, “John has a right to say what he says — I also have trouble explaining events with regard to the president and Russia.”

WASHINGTON — When the message from Matt Skiber arrived in the mailbox of the Facebook account for Donald J. Trump’s Florida campaign in early August 2016, it raised no flags, despite its slightly awkward attempts at colloquial American English.

It was one of thousands of inquiries about getting involved — in this case asking for the campaign’s support in planning “a YUGE pro-Trump flash mob in every Florida town” — that were fielded by an overextended staff that was mostly new to presidential politics.

The campaign employee who oversaw the Facebook account took more than two weeks to get back to Mr. Skiber, according to private Facebook messages obtained by The New York Times. The employee, who did not want to be remembered as the victim of a Russian plot and asked for anonymity, thanked Mr. Skiber for his enthusiasm and creativity and recommended that he contact Chad Tucker, the Florida communications director, at his campaign email address. Adding a thumbs-up and American flag emojis, the employee told Mr. Skiber, “We can win this!”

But Mr. Skiber was not an American supporter of Mr. Trump. Instead, he was a persona created by the Internet Research Agency, the Russian company indicted last month. The special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, alleged that the company, linked to President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and his country’s intelligence services, executed an elaborate and expensive plot to “sow discord” in American politics and ultimately to boost Mr. Trump and damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 presidential campaign.

A review of the private Facebook messages, as well as interviews with the Trump campaign operatives who were targeted by Russians, reveal that Mr. Trump’s team was susceptible to Moscow’s interference campaign. It preyed on unsuspecting staff members who were more interested in capturing the enthusiasm of supporters of their unorthodox nominee and did not envision the seemingly far-fetched possibility that Russians might enlist them as unwitting players in a scheme to undermine American democracy.

“Nobody reasonably would have asked — or even thought to ask — ‘Are you sure you’re not with Russia?’” said Karen Giorno, a Republican operative who was the Florida state director for Mr. Trump’s campaign at the time it was contacted by the Internet Research Agency. “It’s just not something that normally you would think you have to watch out for.”

In a plot carried out by 80 employees, the Internet Research Agency, which has come to be known as the “troll factory,” stole identities from Americans and created social media campaigns and fake online personas like Matt Skiber to try to manipulate voters, activists and Trump campaign staff members, court papers show. The Russians focused on Florida, the nation’s most critical swing state, contacting activists and Mr. Trump’s campaign primarily for help in staging rallies across the state on Aug. 20, in the heat of the presidential race, called Florida Goes Trump, according to the indictment.

Court papers do not indicate whether the Russians succeeded in winning help from the campaign’s Florida operation. And the rallies appear to have attracted few attendees and relatively little attention at the time.

The Trump campaign’s operation in Florida, as in many key states, was thinly staffed, inexperienced and often overwhelmed by the demands of a white-hot presidential race. Any procedures for vetting and verifying people or groups who sought to get involved were not widely shared by campaign staff members. And they were generally not on the lookout for infiltration efforts by anyone, let alone by Russians who had gone to great lengths to create false identities.

The informal setup and small staff was typical of the on-the-ground operations of most statewide or presidential campaigns, which tend to be chaotic hives of activity where offers of volunteer assistance are usually welcomed with little scrutiny.

“I would have been more concerned with whether or not the opposition would try to infiltrate our campaign,” Ms. Giorno said, “or whether someone who was trying to represent the campaign had a criminal record, or had the right character or background.”

Ms. Giorno said she was not involved in running the Facebook account and was “shocked” by the revelations in the indictment that someone on her staff had unknowingly opened the door for the Russians.

But, she added: “I don’t know how you stop that. Anybody can put up a fake profile on anyone.”

The Trump re-election campaign did not respond to a request for comment. Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said, “Out of respect for the special counsel, we are not going to comment.”

The employee who oversaw the Facebook account had wide latitude and focused primarily on policing for offensive content on the public-facing portion of the page, while also trying to respond to everyone who privately expressed an interest in boosting Mr. Trump.

The employee cited a desire to be polite to supporters and to make them feel heard. Expressing embarrassment over being tricked by the Russians, the employee compared the situation to “The Americans,” the television show in which Russian spies collect intelligence while passing themselves off as business owners in Washington during the height of the Cold War.

Using the information provided by the employee, the Russians at the Internet Research Agency emailed Mr. Tucker, the campaign’s Florida communications director, from an account set up under another alias, Josh Milton, court documents show. The Russians presented the Milton persona as the “team leader” of a pro-Trump social media group called Being Patriotic, according to a Facebook message.

Being Patriotic had planned rallies in 13 “confirmed locations” in Florida and asked the campaign for help at each one, the Russians using the Josh Milton email address wrote to Mr. Tucker, according to the indictment.

Days later, on the recommendation of the campaign employee operating the Florida Facebook account, the Russians contacted another campaign staff member, Beatriz J. Ramos, who served as the coalitions director for the Trump campaign in Florida, according to the indictment, which does not identify either Mr. Tucker or Ms. Ramos by name.

Mr. Tucker and Ms. Ramos said that they received a high volume of messages during the campaign, and had no recollection of receiving, let alone responding to, the messages. Both said they could not recall any messages that prompted suspicions about Russian outreach, though they acknowledged they were not attuned to that possibility, either.

“No one was talking about the Russians back then, so it’s not like something that anyone was looking out for,” said Mr. Tucker, adding that his job did not include vetting volunteers or communicating with people who wanted to set up rallies. He worked for Mr. Trump’s presidential transition after the election and is now a telecommunications official based in South Carolina.

Ms. Ramos, who briefly worked for the Trump administration before returning to Florida, suggested that Mrs. Clinton’s allies might have tried to frame the Trump campaign. “I’ve been around long enough to know that if Democrats are blaming Republicans for something, they’ve already done it, and they’ve done it worse,” she said. “So I feel like maybe your questions are best directed to someone from the Hillary campaign, rather than myself, because I’ve not seen anything that would represent any type of collusion or any Russian influence.”

Ms. Ramos and Mr. Tucker said they could not check their campaign email accounts because they no longer had access to them. The messages sent by the Russians via Facebook are no longer accessible from the Trump campaign’s Florida account, the employee said, because the Matt Skiber account from which they were sent was deactivated.

According to the indictment, the Russians deleted social media accounts and emails “in order to avoid detection and impede investigation” once it became apparent that Mr. Mueller’s team was working with Facebook and other social media companies to investigate Russian interference. Mr. Mueller’s team did collect at least some of the Facebook messages and emails sent to the Trump campaign officials in Florida.

The dates of the Facebook messages obtained by The Times roughly correspond to those referenced in the indictment.

Mr. Mueller’s investigators likely would have emails sent by the Trump staff in response to the Russian entreaties; the special counsel requested and received documents from the campaign, which instructed former staff members to retain all documents and communications related to the campaign.

Mr. Tucker, Ms. Giorno, Ms. Ramos and the employee who sent the Facebook messages said they had not been contacted by the special counsel.

“We were never notified or aware of any Russian efforts to interfere in the election by the F.B.I. or any other agency,” Ms. Giorno said. “As someone who worked very closely with then-candidate Trump, I can tell you that security and integrity of the process was paramount to him and his senior staff.”

The ability of campaigns to detect and prevent foreign infiltration could be tested again soon. Intelligence agencies and outside experts agree that Russians are planning to meddle in elections this fall and beyond, but Mr. Trump and key parts of his administration are doing little to combat such meddling.