WASHINGTON — President Trump’s approval ratings have been nudging upward and his party’s political standing is improving, but the president’s unceasing habit of making inflammatory and insensitive remarks is galvanizing opposition against him — especially from women — that could smother Republican momentum going into the midterm campaign.

Saturday was a case in point. In a Twitter post, Mr. Trump appeared to raise doubts about the entire #MeToo movement, a day after he had offered sympathy for a former aide accused of spousal abuse.

“Peoples lives are being shattered and destroyed by a mere allegation,”  the president wrote on Twitter, adding: “There is no recovery for someone falsely accused - life and career are gone. Is there no such thing any longer as Due Process?”

On Friday, the president had jumped into the controversy over the former aide, Rob Porter, who is accused by two former wives of physical and emotional abuse, defending him and offering no denunciation even for the idea of assaulting women. Mr. Trump, who himself has been accused of sexual misconduct, focused instead on Mr. Porter, saying that he was enduring a “tough time.”

The president’s seeming indifference to claims of abuse infuriated Republicans, who were already confronting a surge of activism from Democratic women driven to protest, raise money and run for office because of their fervent opposition to Mr. Trump.

“This is coming, this is real,” Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s former chief strategist, said recently about the female-fueled wave of liberal energy.

Mr. Trump’s remarks illustrated a broader problem: Republican congressional leaders and strategists have pleaded with lawmakers and candidates to stay focused on economic growth and December’s tax cuts, a message they hope will be their salvation before the elections in November. But that may be little more than fantasy in a campaign that will turn more on the president’s conduct than any policy issue.

His comments on Friday, the first he had offered since images emerged of one of Mr. Porter’s former wives bearing a black eye, were the culmination of a week’s worth of politically ill-advised steps that suggest that the president and his lieutenants cannot stop themselves from blunting positive political momentum. By the weekend, Mr. Trump’s State of the Union address, strong employment and wage figures as well as the onset of tax cuts seemed washed away by the latest White House controversy.

The frustration in the Republican political class is bursting forward.

“For members or anybody else who cares about keeping control of Congress, if you find yourself talking about anything but the middle-class tax cut, shut up and stop talking,” fumed Corry Bliss, who runs the primary House Republican “super PAC,” the Congressional Leadership Fund. “Any time spent on TV talking about anything but how we’re helping the middle class is a waste of time and does nothing to help us win in 2018.”

Republicans have grown accustomed to the president’s lack of discipline and inability to reliably carry a message. But operatives overseeing the midterm effort and some lawmakers facing difficult re-elections are growing more alarmed that Mr. Trump’s fixation on the Russia inquiry, personal slights and personality clashes inside and outside his White House are only encouraging his congressional and conservative news media allies to swerve off message.

The party has finally gotten some good signs. The president’s approval ratings have been inching up in recent polling, fewer voters are indicating a preference for a Democratic Congress and some polls show Mr. Trump starting to get more credit for the booming economy than former President Barack Obama.

But even as voters begin to see more take-home pay, companies add jobs and employees receive bonuses, their votes are not necessarily going to drift to the Republicans in November. Many Americans are still uncertain that they will benefit from the tax measure, Mr. Bliss conceded. He cited a wave of private polling and focus groups that his organization has conducted this year revealing much of the electorate to be skeptical that they would receive a tax cut from the bill, which was signed into law in December.

That is in part because of what mainstream Republicans describe as a destructive cycle of incentives: Mr. Trump reacts to Fox News segments about the Russia investigation or another controversy, encouraging more such coverage and prompting House conservatives from largely safe seats to make their own incendiary comments, which win them television invitations and attention from the president. Such notoriety might help those lawmakers in their deep red districts, but they do nothing for the party’s overall political standing.

“These guys are performing for the president when they go on TV,” said Jason Roe, a longtime Republican strategist who is consulting on a series of at-risk House districts in California.

Representative Matt Gaetz of Florida, a first-term Republican who is one of Mr. Trump’s most visible champions outside the White House staff, all but said as much.

Mr. Gaetz, who used the State of the Union speech to snag a selfie with Mr. Trump in the House chamber, has said the president is “about as popular in my district as oxygen.” He acknowledged that the tax bill was far more politically urgent than arguments about Russia and conceded that his on-air denunciations of Mr. Mueller served no electoral purpose. But for good measure, he said, he has been urging colleagues to warn voters in 2018 that Democrats could impeach Mr. Trump.

He also boasted that he had found a particular audience for his cable news forays: Mr. Trump, he said, “calls me frequently and shares his thoughts on my television appearances.”

Far less visible are Republican lawmakers such as Representative Mimi Walters of California, who is facing a difficult campaign in an Orange County district where lobbing rhetorical bombs at the F.B.I. will do little with her centrist constituents but drawing attention to Disney’s bonuses could bear fruit.

“We talk about this all the time — we have got to get the message out on taxes,” Ms. Walters said.

Campaign veterans and Capitol Hill aides say part of the challenge, particularly in the House, is that many Republican lawmakers had until last year been in office only with a Democratic president and therefore are well practiced at oppositional politics but know little about trumpeting a positive message.

Party officials have for weeks sought to drive home to lawmakers and Mr. Trump how crucial it is that they sell the tax law, bluntly warning that it will take an ambitious campaign to transform the measure into an unambiguous political winner. Strategists have written memos for public consumption and published op-eds emphasizing the need to go on offense. Senior lawmakers have used private meetings to implore the president and their colleagues to stay focused on taxes.

At a gathering last month at Camp David, House Republican leaders invoked the example of Mr. Obama to Mr. Trump, who is often eager to act differently than his predecessor. The lawmakers told the president that Democrats suffered such deep losses in 2010 in part because Mr. Obama did not make a sufficient case for his economic stimulus measure, Republicans in attendance said.

Last week at a congressional Republican retreat in West Virginia, Representative Steve Stivers of Ohio, the head of the House campaign arm, opened and closed his presentation to lawmakers with “three takeaways,” according to a Republican in attendance: “Be ready, sell tax reform and run a campaign.”

Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, another member of the leadership, has even created a kit for lawmakers about how to stage district events to “tell the story of the tax cuts and jobs,” offering a “Gipper of the Week” award to Republicans who do top-flight communications works (the award: a jar of jelly beans, a favorite of Ronald Reagan’s).

David Winston, a veteran Republican pollster, made a presentation at the retreat arguing that many voters remained highly flexible in their views of the tax law, giving Republicans a chance — but so far, only a chance — to close the sale. But in an interview, Mr. Winston, who advises Speaker Paul D. Ryan, warned that the party could not trust public opinion on the law to continue improving on its own.

“There’s a need to make people aware of what’s in the legislation,” Mr. Winston said. “There is a large portion of the electorate that is aware of it, but there’s probably a larger portion of the electorate that’s not.”

Mr. Ryan has been uneasy about the attention devoted to the release of the House Intelligence Committee’s memo about the F.B.I. Instead, the speaker has mapped out a series of visits to businesses affected by the tax law to showcase his preferred 2018 message by example.

In a revealing sign of the party’s anxiety about Mr. Trump, the Republican National Committee has taken to trumpeting the “Trump tax cuts” and has urged campaigns and other Republican committees to credit Mr. Trump explicitly and often with enacting the new law, but has faced skepticism from Republicans wary of introducing Mr. Trump’s name into competitive elections.

Mr. Trump himself underscored the risk involved in tying him, as a personality, to the Republican economic agenda during a visit to Ohio this week. His speech was intended to showcase the health of the economy, but he veered into an extended digression about his recent address to Congress and accused Democrats of “treason” for refusing to clap at points. The economic message was lost.

The conundrum, several strategists and lawmakers conceded, is that Mr. Trump’s legal and culture wars are more politically galvanizing to the party’s conservative base than Ryanesque sermons on the free enterprise system.

“The G.O.P. base just doesn’t eat that up the way it does trending memo hash tags and firing-Mueller conspiracies,” Nick Everhart, a Republican strategist based in Ohio, said of the party’s economic message. “Thus, it’s no surprise members of Congress in super-red districts, immune to the perilous political environment we’re headed toward, put themselves and feeding the base first.”

THE RUB OF TIME Bellow, Nabokov, Hitchens, Travolta, Trump: Essays and Reportage, 1994-2017 By Martin Amis 416 pp. Alfred A. Knopf. $28.95.

Martin Amis, for those who need an introduction, is a writer living in Brooklyn. He was also, for a period beginning in the mid-1980s and lasting well into the span covered by “The Rub of Time,” his new collection of nonfiction, a famous British novelist. That phrase, which may strike some young American ears as an archaism if not an oxymoron, is worth unpacking, and Amis provides readers with a pocket account of the historical preconditions of his extravagant fame. In the Thatcher years, he writes, “the newspapers had been getting fatter and fatter (first the Sundays, then the Saturdays, then all the days in between) and what filled these extra pages was not additional news but additional features. And the featurists were running out of people to write about — running out of alcoholic actors, ne’er-do-well royals, depressive comedians, jailed rock stars, defecting ballet dancers, reclusive film directors, hysterical fashion models, indigent marquises, adulterous golfers, wife-beating footballers and rapist boxers. The dragnet went on widening until journalists, often to their patent dismay, were writing about writers: literary writers.”

In other words, the gossip-hungry public of the 1990s was treated to news about Martin Amis’s dental work, his divorce and his preferences in agents and real estate because tabloid science had not yet discovered the Kardashians.

I’m not sure I buy the theory, or that it’s meant to be bought, but it is certain that Amis, who also happens to be the son of a famous British novelist (and thus “the only hereditary novelist in the Anglophone literary corpus”), has been subjected to the kind of attention that his fellow Brooklyn scribblers, hunched over their laptops and cortados from Bushwick to Red Hook, can hardly imagine. As any thrifty novelist would, he has sometimes turned that scrutiny into fuel for his work, fictional and otherwise. Some of the essays, reviews and reported articles collected in “The Rub of Time” — including two miniature anthologies of questions posed in The Independent by fans, gawkers and haters — take Amis’s household-name status as an occasion or a theme. But the deep subject of this book, what holds its disparate bits together and makes it worth your time even if you have only the vaguest idea of who its author is supposed to be, is not celebrity at all. It’s professionalism.

Each of the 44 pieces is tagged with the name of the publication, including this one, that first commissioned and paid for it. The range of topics — literary and sporting, personal and political — provides a map of what various editors over the years thought Amis might be interested in. Or (not quite the same thing) what they thought their readers might be interested in Amis on. I’m not snarking, I’m admiring. We can quibble about whether the ability to turn out a predetermined quantity of lucid, witty, sometimes moving, rarely boring prose on assignment and on deadline should be classified as a talent or a skill — I’m here to tell you it isn’t easy — or about whether thinky journalism is an art or a craft. What seems to me beyond argument is that Amis is good at it.

He is especially good at literary criticism. The best parts of “The Rub of Time” are devoted to his two favorite novelists, Vladimir Nabokov and Saul Bellow (whom he calls his “Twin Peaks”). Amis’s affection for them is hardly news, and there is some repetition among the essays, but they serve as vaccines against cynicism, as reminders that affection is a powerful engine of critical inquiry. Bellow he adores without qualification: “I hereby trumpet the prediction that Bellow will emerge as the supreme American novelist.” Nabokov, arguably a more pervasive influence, is a more complicated case. Amis has never been able to finish “Ada,” and he notes with measured distaste that Nabokov’s imagination, in his later years, “insufficiently honored the innocence … of 12-year-old girls,” adding, “This leaves a faint but visible scar on the leviathan of his corpus.”

Our favorite writers can lead us into ideological brier patches and ethical thickets. They can confuse and disappoint us, which is why we must keep rereading them. That is how I am with Amis. I will confess an absolute and steadfast devotion to his novels — including the bad ones, of which there are not a few — even as I chuckle to see him (and by implication myself) described, in a jokey online catalog of rotten literary men, as “the favorite author of every dude who hates women but loves telling people about the year he lived in London.” When asked by one of his Independent questioners whether he’s a misogynist, Amis responds that his wife doesn’t seem to think so, that he has written some fine female characters and that he is a “gynocrat” who believes women should run the world. Maybe so, but he doesn’t seem to believe they write novels worth discussing. He does, in passing, mention reading Zadie Smith “with a constant smile of admiration,” but the essay about Iris Murdoch is really about her husband, John Bayley, and the one about Jane Austen is really about Hollywood.

Amis’s literary interests are limited not only by gender, but also by generation, and the two limitations are entwined. Like Prince Charles, who was also born just after World War II, and with whom he has half-ironically identified, he is a permanent son. This means he cranes his neck to see what the grown-ups are doing long after becoming a grown-up himself. The criticism collected here is mostly about his male elders: Philip Roth, John Updike, Don DeLillo, Anthony Burgess, J. G. Ballard, Philip Larkin and of course Kingsley Amis. Whatever Oedipal aggression Martin may have harbored toward these dads has softened into mildly barbed fondness, and the result is assessments that are clearsighted and generous. This is especially valuable in the case of Larkin, whose greatness is wound up tightly with his flaws. Amis’s explanation of why Larkin is not “a poet’s poet” but “a novelist’s poet” is so illuminating, so useful to a reader, that it almost justifies the book all by itself.

But there is some filler to get through. Sending Amis — the author of books called “Money” and “Success” — to Las Vegas to play poker may have seemed inspired, but his insights prove to be as middling as the cards that sent him home a loser. The essay isn’t a bad read, but Colson Whitehead on poker is a much better one. Likewise, if you want to read about the porn industry, you’re better off with David Foster Wallace (or, more recently, Molly Lambert). Those writers allow themselves to be genuinely troubled or flummoxed by what they see, whereas Amis is hampered by his unflappability and his reluctance to be seen taking the wrong things too seriously.

His virtues as a reporter are a quick, adaptable intelligence and a willingness to do the necessary work — to read, think, travel, listen and, within the parameters of polite magazine discourse, to empathize. His principal vice is condescension, the unwillingness or inability to resist demonstrating his superiority to both his subjects and his readers. This is not entirely objectionable: We wouldn’t have much use for writers who were dumber or less sophisticated than we imagined ourselves to be. But Amis’s contempt toward the human material in front of him often feels easy, habitual, unearned, a matter of prejudice rather than experience.

This is most glaring in a short, dismissive article on Jeremy Corbyn, published two years before the Labour leader pulled off his near upset of Theresa May in last year’s snap election. In his preface, Amis notes that “political prophecies” tend “to be instantly dismayed by events,” and he can hardly be faulted for underestimating Corbyn as an electoral force. There are substantive aspects of Amis’s critique, but the gist — the “gravamen,” as he might say — is that Corbyn, a humorless, teetotaling vegetarian wedded to an antiquated style of leftism, is woefully uncool. Amis, who has reveled in and brandished his coolness since boyhood, is blind to the resentment his kind of derision can provoke.

A version of that resentment, usually labeled populism or anti-elitism, has become a potent force in American politics, and while Amis has much to say about its improbable vehicle — our 45th president — the tenor of our public life at the moment eludes him. A longtime observer of the spectacle of American vulgarity (his highly entertaining Reagan-era collection of stateside dispatches is called “The Moronic Inferno”), Amis has retained a tourist’s aloofness from the texture of American life. And so while he is duly amused, appalled and infuriated by the rise of Trump (which he chronicles in three essays), he doesn’t really tell his readers much beyond what they are already likely to know or believe.

His earlier political writings, collected mainly during the presidency of George W. Bush, are similarly repositories of the higher conventional wisdom. He is enraged by radical Islamism (though he parries the inevitable charge of Islamophobia) and skeptical of American militarism. His condemnation of the Iranian government is as ringing as his denunciations of Stalin and Hitler. His language bristles with signifiers of provocation, but his arguments rarely breach the boundaries of acceptable, liberal-with-qualms opinion.

This is the downside risk of professionalism. Over time, Amis has learned to read the mainstream without a chart, and to steer clear of the dangerous shoals and ledges. He is a nimble navigator, the wind is gentle at his back and the boat, alas, rarely rocks.

PELHAM, N.Y. — Dr. Andrew Mutnick closely follows national politics, and has even gone door-knocking for Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. But he admits he was caught off guard by the political landscape of his own backyard.

It was not until Donald J. Trump won the presidency that Dr. Mutnick, a pediatrician with offices in Manhattan and Westchester County, learned that his own Democratic state senator, Jeffrey D. Klein, had been empowering Republicans in Albany.

“I’m like, ‘Jeez, what? Really? Where have I been?’” he recalled thinking after discovering Mr. Klein’s leadership of a group of eight Democrats who have a power-sharing arrangement with Republicans in the State Senate.

“I thought that if I didn’t know about this, I bet a lot of people don’t know,” Dr. Mutnick said. “It’s an incredibly insidious arrangement that is very difficult to untangle and understand.”

Across the nation, a backlash to the Trump agenda is underway, especially among angry suburban voters like Dr. Mutnick. The latest example surfaced earlier this month in a Pennsylvania congressional special election, where Conor Lamb, a Democrat, defeated his Republican opponent  in a district outside Pittsburgh that Mr. Trump had won by 20 percentage points.

In New York, Democrats are mostly focused on unseating six Republican members of the congressional delegation. But for some, merely targeting Republicans is not enough; Mr. Klein’s group, the Independent Democratic Conference, is now fair game because it is viewed as an enabler to Republican rule — helping them control the State Senate even though Democrats hold a numerical majority.

The rising antipathy toward the I.D.C. has led to a tentative agreement to have the renegade group eventually return to the Democratic fold. The condition-laden deal has the blessing of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, a Democrat who has been criticized by some — most recently by his new primary opponent, Cynthia Nixon — for not using his influence to force a truce years earlier.

Nonetheless, residual anger over Mr. Trump’s victory, combined with the Democrats’ hopes of flipping Congress in the midterm elections this fall, have invigorated efforts to drive the I.D.C. senators out of office.

A coalition of 60 anti-Trump groups has endorsed five Democratic challengers who will run against members of the I.D.C. in the September primary. The Working Families Party, which often cross-endorses Democratic candidates, has come out in support of seven challengers.

Activists from groups like Progressive Women of Pelham, True Blue NY and Rockland Citizens Action Network have held postcard-writing parties, protests and educational forums to inform the public about the I.D.C.

They face an uphill battle: The I.D.C. members have all the advantages of incumbency, from name recognition to fund-raising.

The I.D.C. was created in 2011 by Mr. Klein, whose district includes parts of the Bronx and Westchester, and a coterie of breakaway Democrats who were dissatisfied with the Senate Democratic leadership. A year later, the group declared its intention to form a bipartisan coalition with Republicans.

Since then, the Republicans have ruled the Senate, while Democrats control the governorship and Assembly. That has left New York out of a club of eight states in which Democrats control both houses of the legislature and the governor’s office.

After Mr. Trump’s victory, Lisa DellAquila, a leader of True Blue NY, created a PowerPoint about the I.D.C. “It’s complicated to understand who they are and what the effect is,” said Ms. DellAquila, a lawyer and stay-at-home mother in Harlem. “I traveled around and made presentations to a couple of people sitting in their living rooms in Riverdale and to big crowds in town halls in Jackson Heights.”

True Blue NY and other groups in the coalition that gave their support to the challengers did so only after the candidates signed a pledge that they would caucus with the mainline Democrats. In recent days, those challengers have started to view themselves as a slate.

“There’s always strength in numbers,” said Alessandra Biaggi, the Democratic candidate for Mr. Klein’s seat who was endorsed by the coalition. “Having the same message amplified in eight different districts is very powerful and important.”

Ms. Biaggi, 31, formerly worked in the counsel’s office for Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and later was a top official in Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign. She is also a granddaughter of Mario Biaggi, the Bronx Democratic congressman who went to prison in the 1980s for corruption, but remains a popular figure in the borough.

In her parents’ living room in Pelham Manor, in southern Westchester County, Ms. Biaggi said she adored her grandfather, adding that she was too young at the time of his trial to understand his wrongdoing.

In debating whether to run for Senate, Ms. Biaggi said she was unconcerned about any potential baggage of the Biaggi name. Rather, it was the prospect of a campaign for state office.

“There’s no right time,” she explained. “It’s always going to be inconvenient. But what’s more inconvenient is not having a truly Democratic state legislature to put us on par with California and Oregon. The I.D.C. senators are not who they say they are. They are not true Democrats.”

For their part, the members of the I.D.C. say they have pulled the Senate Republicans to the left and have helped pass progressive legislation, from a $15 minimum wage to raising the age of criminal responsibility.

Mainline Democrats say that the I.D.C.’s real motive is power and the perks that come with it — committee chairmanships, larger offices and lucrative stipends. They say that Mr. Klein, through his coalition with Republicans, also has tremendous say over which bills reach the floor for a vote.

Democratic activists argue that many more pieces of progressive legislation would have become law, had the mainstream Democrats controlled the Senate. Earlier this month, Dominique Claire Shuminova made the jump from helping lead the Progressive Women of Pelham to becoming Ms. Biaggi’s deputy campaign manager.

She said that perhaps her main motivation for trying to derail the I.D.C. was a desire to see more progressive laws enacted.

“Jeff Klein is standing in the way of all this legislation I care about,” said Ms. Shuminova, pointing to issues like women’s reproductive health and voting rights. “In the age of Donald Trump, there is a new urgency to all of these bills getting to the floor.”

In a statement, Mr. Klein blamed the anti-Trump coalition for blocking Democratic unity in the Senate.

“These fringe groups have repudiated efforts by the state Democrats, Senate Democrats and the governor to go into the November elections with a unified party,” he said. “If there is anyone who is responsible for the failure of the Democratic Party in November, it will be them. Their divisive, empty platform is largely responsible for Donald Trump’s election in the first place.”

Even if the deal to merge the I.D.C. with the mainline Democrats was to go through, the Democrats would still be one vote short of the 32 they need to lead the 63-seat chamber: Another Democratic senator, Simcha Felder of Brooklyn, has been siding with Republicans since 2012, and has been noncommittal about his alliances.

John Gromada, vice president of Rockland Citizens Action Network, said that deal or no deal, he would continue to work to unseat his state senator, David Carlucci, an I.D.C. member. “We don’t want to reward Carlucci and the other I.D.C. members for the treachery they have committed since 2011,” said Mr. Gromada, a composer who lives in Nyack.

Others see a sexist subplot to the partnership between Republicans and the breakaway Democrats, one that has denied Andrea Stewart-Cousins, leader of the mainstream Senate Democrats, the title of Senate majority leader, and a role in the behind-the-scenes deal making now conducted by the so-called four men in a room.

Mr. Klein is one of the four men — the others are Mr. Cuomo; Carl E. Heastie, the Assembly speaker; and John J. Flanagan, the Senate majority leader — who finalize the budget and other weighty issues behind closed doors.

Rhea Mallett, a Briarcliff Manor resident who helped found Indivisible Rivertowns, said the latest deal between mainstream Democrats and the I.D.C. was especially frustrating given the #MeToo movement and the spate of sexual assault and harassment allegations against powerful men, including Mr. Klein.

“The part that upsets me the most is what they are doing to Andrea Stewart-Cousins,” said Ms. Mallett, a lawyer and mother of two. “She is so smart and knows so much. She is the first woman to ever head a major party in the Senate. You basically have men saying, ‘You can’t do it; you have to share it.’ It’s outrageous.”