FIRST DADSParenting and Politics From George Washington to Barack ObamaBy Joshua KendallIllustrated. 391 pp. Grand Central Publishing. $27.

“One of the worst things in the world is being the child of a president,” Franklin Delano Roosevelt told an aide in 1934. “It’s a terrible life they lead.”

While this may have been true for the troubled Roosevelt children, who seemed visible to their father only when they were of use to him, I doubt Malia and Sasha Obama would agree. Determined not to repeat the anger and absenteeism of his own father, Barack Obama has by all accounts been a devoted parent, committed to family dinners, bedtime reading rituals (every Harry Potter book!) and school involvement.

How does Obama do it? How can anyone combine such a brutally demanding job with being a good father? And what does each president’s fitness for parenthood reveal about his fitness to run our country?

Joshua Kendall tackles such questions in his anecdote-packed “First Dads: Parenting and Politics From George Washington to Barack Obama.” At his disposal are the fatherhood portfolios of every single president, as all 43 have been fathers — 38 of whom had children biologically, the other five by adoption.

Kendall breaks down the field into six categories: the Preoccupied; Playful Pals; Double-Dealing Dads; Tiger Dads; the Grief-Stricken; and the Nurturers. (Obama nestles himself into the last chapter, while Franklin Roosevelt headlines the Preoccupied.)

That first section examines our most work-focused chief executives, whose thirst for power created insecure children who in some cases (Franklin Roosevelt) had to make appointments just to speak to him, and even then he didn’t listen. And as George H.W. Bush chased his ambitions, he and Barbara once farmed out the care of their four sons to friends for four months, leading Jeb later to joke ruefully, “At least we weren’t put in a kennel.”

Kendall is good at linking a president’s strengths or failures as a parent to his success or failure at governing, though the correlation is sometimes indirect — Grover Cleveland struggled to form deep bonds with people, including his children, but as president this remove helped him to shape an efficient administration that wasn’t undermined by emotional loyalties.

Less illuminating in this regard is the chapter on the bereaved and grieving, where the lesson seems to be that grief can distract — hardly unique to presidents. Still, it’s startling to be reminded of just how vulnerable young children were back then, even children of great privilege. James Monroe’s only son didn’t make it to 3, Zachary Taylor and James A. Garfield lost two children under 4 and Rutherford B. Hayes lost three sons who were 1. The accidental death of Franklin Pierce’s 11-year-old boy is so gruesome it’s difficult to read about, especially knowing that Pierce had already lost two other sons.

Not all grief, however, proved to be a drag on a president’s productivity. William McKinley, whose two daughters died before they were 4, succeeded in office largely because of how energetically he threw himself into his work to flee his pain.

Kendall’s book also provides delightful peeks at life inside the White House, a place where you might think nothing could (or should) go unmonitored. And yet, there’s Jimmy Carter’s middle son, Chip, sneaking onto the White House roof to smoke a joint. (Wait, isn’t that place crawling with gun-toting agents?) Later we learn that Chip was simply following in the footsteps of Teddy Roosevelt’s rebellious daughter Alice, who also fled to the roof with her cigarettes to puff away.

More than anything, “First Dads” provides a valuable reminder that while an American president may have the clout to launch spaceships and end world wars, that doesn’t mean he can get his children to behave, be happy or even return his calls. In fact, when it comes to parenthood — that great, humbling equalizer — the most intelligent and powerful men on earth seem to flounder and fail even more than the rest of us.

The Rev. Billy Graham admitted in his later years that he had learned a hard lesson after the Watergate scandal exposed his cozy complicity with President Richard M. Nixon: Pastors should not become too enmeshed with politicians and partisan politics.

“Looking back I know I sometimes crossed the line, and I wouldn’t do that now,” he said to the magazine Christianity Today in 2011.

Now, the movement that he helped spawn is divided over the very danger that Mr. Graham — who died last week at age 99 — had warned about. Evangelicals have become locked in a tight embrace with President Trump and the Republican Party, and some of them are now asking whether they have compromised the Gospel message.

Among Mr. Trump’s most vocal evangelical supporters, few are as high-profile as Billy Graham’s eldest son and the heir to his ministry, the Rev. Franklin Graham, who is 65. Though admired among evangelicals for his aid work in hardship zones with the charity he leads, Samaritan’s Purse, he has drawn criticism for his unstinting support of the president.

Franklin Graham has defended the president on television and social media through the white supremacist rally in Charlottesville, Va., the crackdowns on immigrants and refugees, the Stormy Daniels scandal, and the slur against Haiti and Africa.

“People say that the president says mean things. I can’t think of anything mean he’s said. I think he speaks what he feels,” Mr. Graham said in a wide-ranging telephone interview last week. “I think he’s trying to speak the truth.”

Billy Graham’s funeral in North Carolina on Friday, which Mr. Trump will attend, will likely serve as a reminder for some evangelicals of how their movement has mutated and splintered from one generation to the next. Before the funeral, Mr. Graham’s body is lying in repose at the Billy Graham Library in Charlotte, N.C., on Monday and Tuesday, and then will be moved to the Capitol rotunda in Washington on Wednesday and Thursday.

In his lifetime, Billy Graham shepherded evangelical Christianity from the margins of American life to its center. His massive revivals, magnetic presence and media stardom earned him entree to President Harry S. Truman and every president since, both Republican and Democrat.

His funeral is expected to draw politicians from both political parties, showcasing Billy Graham’s success at bipartisanship. The eulogy is to be delivered by his son, Franklin, who has honed a reputation as a polarizing partisan.

When Barack Obama was president, Franklin Graham fanned the “birther” conspiracy that claimed the president was not an American citizen. He falsely suggested that Mr. Obama was not a Christian and might secretly be a Muslim.

During the 2016 presidential campaign, Franklin Graham held rallies in 50 states to pump up evangelical turnout on what he called a “Decision America Tour.” Once Mr. Trump landed the Republican nomination, Mr. Graham avoided explicit endorsements at those rallies, but left no doubt about his preference.

After the election, Mr. Graham said that Mr. Trump’s victory was evidence that “God’s hand was at work.” He was one of the six clergy members chosen to offer prayers at the inauguration, and is among the evangelical pastors who serve as informal advisers to Mr. Trump and Vice President Mike Pence.

In doing so, Franklin Graham has become a prominent leader of the evangelical faction that is white, older, conservative on immigration, L.G.B.T. issues and guns, and loyal to the Republican Party and Mr. Trump. Some 80 percent of white evangelicals voted for Mr. Trump, according to the Pew Research Center.

But there is another wing of the evangelical movement whose members are more moderate politically, many of them black, Latino, Asian, or city dwellers, or young. Some of these evangelicals have grown increasingly discomfited by the close association with the Republican Party, and now, with Mr. Trump.

For years, there had been muted criticism of Franklin Graham by some evangelicals. It began after the Sept. 11 attacks, when Mr. Graham branded Islam a “very wicked and evil religion,” and escalated during Mr. Graham’s stoking of the “birther” slander. But given his status as evangelical royalty and respect for his charitable work, the misgivings mostly remained private.

Billy Graham chose not to pass judgment on his son, at least in public. When asked in an interview at his home in 2005 whether he agreed with his son’s words about Islam, he would only respond, “Let’s say, I didn’t say it.”

Now with some evangelical leaders concerned about the direction of their movement, the concerns about Franklin Graham have begun to emerge.

“I think that Franklin Graham has failed as a Christian leader, both for what he endorses and for what he has failed to criticize. I speak for a lot of people on that one,” said Richard J. Mouw, president emeritus and professor of faith and public life at the evangelical Fuller Theological Seminary, the nation’s largest full-time seminary.

“A lot of us were deeply grateful to Billy Graham for acknowledging that he aligned himself in unhelpful and actually non-Christian ways with a person in power,” Dr. Mouw said in an interview last week. “We’re grateful that he said, ‘I was wrong, that was a dangerous thing to have done.’ And now, here we see the same patterns repeated, even by his own son.”

Jerushah Armfield, one of Billy Graham’s granddaughters, has chastised her uncle Franklin and other evangelical leaders for their willingness to overlook behavior by Mr. Trump that is widely seen as immoral and un-Christian.

“It’s sending the wrong message to the world about what Christianity is, and what evangelicals are, or I guess, have become,” she recently said on CNN. (After her grandfather died, she declined a request for an interview).

Franklin Graham said his critics may be complaining to the news media, “but they haven’t talked to me.”

He said he was well aware of his father’s advice about keeping a distance from politicians, and said, “I think it’s good advice.”

But he said he had no reservations about his alliance with Mr. Trump, whom he was drawn to in 2011, while Mr. Trump was carrying on the “birther” campaign against Mr. Obama.

He said that Mr. Trump has delivered for evangelicals on every issue — from abortion, to religious freedom to vowing to abolish the Johnson Amendment that inhibits churches from endorsing politicians.

“In my lifetime, he has supported the Christian faith more than any president that I know,” Mr. Graham said. “That doesn’t mean he is the greatest example of the Christian faith, and neither am I, but he defends the faith. There’s a difference between defending the faith and living the faith.”

He said the media has lied about Mr. Trump, but when asked whether Mr. Trump has told any lies, he said, “I don’t know of any.”

Mr. Graham was dismissive of questions surrounding Mr. Trump and Russian government interference in the 2016 race. “I’ll be honest with you. This whole thing on Russia? I don’t believe it. I don’t believe he has collusion with the Russians,” Mr. Graham said. “And I think if somebody in his campaign was involved, the president would have fired him.”

William C. Martin, a senior fellow in religion at Rice University’s Baker Institute, interviewed father and son for his biography, “A Prophet With Honor: The Billy Graham Story.” He said that Franklin was more like his mother — outspoken and not hesitant to offend. Billy was “always auditioning, wanting to be accepted,” said Mr. Martin, paraphrasing a friend of the elder Graham.

Billy Graham had three daughters and two sons, all of whom have carried on the work of Christian evangelism, whether through preaching, writing or running ministries. So have many of his grandchildren, but each has interpreted the calling differently. And like the evangelical movement, they are not all on the same page when it comes to politics.

Boz Tchividjian, whose mother, Gigi, is Billy Graham’s eldest daughter, is a former prosecutor who founded the organization GRACE — Godly Response to Abuse in the Christian Environment — to investigate and prevent child abuse in evangelical ministries. He said his grandfather inspired him to work “with those who are hurting and have been marginalized by society, and quite frankly, the church.”

It was his sister, Ms. Armfield, who criticized their uncle Franklin on CNN. Ms. Armfield, who is married to a Baptist pastor, is not the only one in the family who feels that way, Mr. Tchividjian said.

“It’s a large family, and it’s a large family that doesn’t agree on everything,” said Mr. Tchividjian, who is also a professor at Liberty University School of Law, in Virginia.

When Billy Graham handed Franklin the reins of the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association in 2001, many people in the organization did not think he was ready for the role, Mr. Martin said.

“Franklin turned out to be better in some ways than they thought he would be” at running an organization and preaching, Mr. Martin said.

“People are worried now that Billy Graham’s legacy will be diminished by some of the actions and positions that Franklin has espoused,” he said. “But I don’t know that that bothers Franklin. Or his supporters.”

It was nearly eight years ago, somehow.

Those who gathered then — curious, hopeful, freezing — remember it all: the ocean of faces across the National Mall; the crackling energy, building as they waited; the catharsis of more than a million strangers finding occasion to shiver together, cheer together, cry together after a presidential campaign that had, to them, affirmed the best of America.

“On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises,” President Obama vowed, just after assuming the title, “the recriminations and worn-out dogmas that for far too long have strangled our politics.”

They remember that pledge.

They do not remember why it seemed possible.

The elections of 2008 and 2016: twin political moments that cannot be disentangled — an earthquake and its aftershock, jolting the American psyche into an era of spectacular contradiction.

An increasingly popular departing president is leading a country that most voters believe is on the wrong track.

Wide-scale economic unease festers at a time, the statistics show, of relative economic stability — eight years after even an escalating financial crisis seemed, to some, a mere blip on the path to “Yes, we can.”

And a campaign pocked with racism and sexism, rendered in open view, may well reach this conclusion: Americans replacing their first black chief executive with their first female one.

If 2008 was an emblem of progress on at least one measure, 2016 has required the grim acceptance of the limits, the disappointments, the blind spots — a nation taking a long look inward, and shuddering.

“I didn’t think about those other million people out there,” Edith S. Childs, the South Carolina councilwoman whose mantra “Fired up, ready to go!” was adopted by Mr. Obama as a campaign rallying cry. “They were still in the ’40s and ’50s in their minds and wishing it hadn’t happened.”

She sighed a bit. “Too late,” Ms. Childs said, days before an election for which she sounded decidedly less fired up. “It happened.”

It did happen. And then came this.

A New York Times/CBS News poll this month found that 82 percent of voters felt more disgusted than excited about American politics because of this campaign. Ninety-seven percent of Donald J. Trump supporters said a Hillary Clinton presidency would make them scared or concerned. Ninety-five percent of Clinton supporters said the same of a Trump administration.

There is a tendency to sanitize bygone political eras in the retelling, to draw straight lines where squiggles belong. Surely some signposts of unrest were discernible many exits ago — the rise in income inequality, scraping away at the middle class; the preponderance of partisan news media; congressional functionality morphing from labored to gridlocked to hopeless.

Such bitter divisions had flared long before Mr. Trump seared his surname onto the democratic process. “Hamilton,” the acclaimed Broadway musical, after all, crests with a fatal gunfight between statesmen.

And for all the rose-colored tributes to John McCain and Mitt Romney, who are now held up by Democrats as exemplars of erstwhile Republican honor and sanity, many Obama supporters once seethed at the sight of them — and, for at least a few months of 2008, of Mrs. Clinton, too.

So much was bound to get worse before it got better. People lost jobs, savings, homes. Some looked at the president and saw distance, fecklessness, insufficiency. Most were not outright bigots.

Still.

Norms had been threatened before 2016, but never bulldozed with such ease.

Truth has often felt contested, but never so thoroughly subjective.

There have been crusades against political correctness, but never a national reckoning over the propriety of boasting about sexual assault.

“It’s like with family or a friend or someone you’re dating. And you say, ‘Let’s just be honest!’” said George Saunders, the author and essayist, who chronicled Trump supporters for The New Yorker in July. “Then they are, and it’s like, ‘Oh, God.’”

This unburdening has redrawn 2008 as something of a utopia in hindsight, taunting the present with its flights of inspiration, its relative high-mindedness, its basic civility most of the time.

Though Mr. Obama commanded about 53 percent of the popular vote, 74 percent of Americans said they felt positively about his election, according to a Los Angeles Times/Bloomberg poll in December 2008.

Any present traces of that race register now as dizzying distortions, shards culled from a fun-house mirror.

Mr. McCain’s captivity in combat was invoked by Mr. Trump as an argument against his heroism.

Mr. McCain’s memorably pointed defense of Mr. Obama after a voter labeled him “an Arab” has given way to a Republican nominee advocating a ban on Muslims entering the United States.

Mr. McCain, in conceding, hailed the historic moment: “Senator Obama has achieved a great thing for himself and for his country.” Mr. Trump has not committed to accepting the results of the election.

In fact, many Republicans insisted then that they hoped to see Mr. Obama succeed.

But there were two sides in 2008, too, and many millions of voters dismayed at the outcome.

Mr. McCain’s running mate, Sarah Palin, helped coax what became the Tea Party into full bloom — an insurgency that helped spawn Mr. Trump’s own — exporting the boiling anger from her campaign events to a mass audience, even as some McCain aides expressed horror at what they had wrought.

Many conservatives see a through line from Ms. Palin’s treatment by the national news media, which they viewed as unfair and condescending, to the heightened distrust of traditional news sources. This context, they say, can account for the otherwise genial-looking Americans now prone to screaming obscenities at reporters during Trump rallies.

But the fury rings familiar. Those early, menacing shouts from Palin crowds — “Kill him!” or “Terrorist!” at a mention of Mr. Obama — have wafted to the main stage, absorbed and repurposed by the speakers at the microphone. Amid signs and chants demanding Mrs. Clinton’s jailing, wishing her death and denouncing her with unprintable gendered slurs, Mr. Trump has himself wondered aloud about the “Second Amendment people” who might take matters into their own hands if she is elected.

And after years of questioning Mr. Obama’s birthplace — then falsely accusing Mrs. Clinton’s 2008 campaign of having done so first — Mr. Trump has seen to it that his followers would never view a Clinton presidency as legitimate.

Republicans are promising investigations. Voters are predicting impeachment, on vague grounds. Some conservative lawmakers are saying they can make peace with an eight-justice Supreme Court in perpetuity, rather than allowing any Democratic president to fill the tiebreaking vacancy.

The result is a sort of pre-emptive resignation, even among those who admire Mrs. Clinton most, about the scope of her triumph if she wins.

Mr. Obama ascended with impossible expectations, largely of his own making. His preferred successor would take office on the assumption that precious little will be permitted to change.

It is a sobering turn for those overjoyed at the prospect of a female president.

It is also a grim confirmation of Mrs. Clinton’s argument against Mr. Obama in the first place. It was she who, in 2008, seemed to mock the wide-eyed sunniness of his message in the Democratic primary campaign, the self-assurance that sheer force of personality would be enough.

“The sky will open, the light will come down, celestial choirs will be singing,” Mrs. Clinton faux-predicted at one campaign stop, forecasting an Obama presidency, “and everyone will know we should do the right thing and the world will be perfect.”

She shrugged.

“Maybe I’ve just lived a little long,” Mrs. Clinton said then, “but I have no illusions about how hard this is going to be.”