“I suppose neither of us is used to the spotlight,” a dapper T’Challa, the prince of Wakanda, says upon meeting Natasha Romanova, a.k.a. the Black Widow, in “Captain America: Civil War.” A few scenes later, a recently orphaned and vengeful T’Challa, swapping his bespoke blue suit for a full-body bulletproof one, reappears as a new Marvel movie superhero.

The prince will have to live with the attention: Even before its Feb. 16 release, “Black Panther” smashed box-office records, beating out “Captain America: Civil War” on first-day advance ticket sales and surpassing “Batman v Superman: Dawn of Justice” to become Fandango’s top-selling superhero movie in history. Perhaps even more impressive, the film is also outpacing its cinematic counterparts in cultural reach.

“I’ve been waiting all of my life for ‘Black Panther,’” said DJ BenHaMeen, host of FanBrosShow, a weekly podcast on “urban geek” culture. “That said, I know where I was, the exact street in Houston and the exact time on Oct. 28, 2014, when Marvel officially announced that they were doing the movie.”

Not since Spike Lee’s “Malcolm X” in 1992 has there been so much hype and hope for a movie among African-American audiences. From special group outings planned by excited fans to crowdfunding campaigns to ensure children can see it, “Black Panther” is shaping up to be a phenomenon. In December, a viral video of two African-American men excited to see the movie’s poster with its all-star black cast — “This is what white people get to feel like ALL THE TIME?!!!!” one man wrote on Twittered — seemed to capture the anticipation, garnering more than 2.5 million views.

What has audiences so eager this time is in part the combination of an auteur African-American director (Ryan Coogler of “Fruitvale Station” and “Creed”), a heavyweight cast (Chadwick Boseman, Michael B. Jordan, Lupita Nyong’o, Angela Bassett and Forest Whitaker) and a soundtrack co-produced by a rap superstar (Kendrick Lamar), all working on one of the most popular franchises in Hollywood. But the excitement has also been fueled by the origin story of the African superhero.

Created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby, Black Panther was the first black superhero in mainstream comics, making his debut in Marvel’s Fantastic Four No. 52 in 1966. He went on to appear in Avengers titles and took his first star turn in Jungle Action No. 5 in 1973. He had his ups and downs: his own series largely penned by Kirby, a cancellation in 1979 and a return in the 1980s. From 2005 to 2009, he was the subject of another series, this one written by the filmmaker Reginald Hudlin (“Marshall”). In 2016, Ta-Nehisi Coates wrote a new series of comic books, while Joe Robert Cole and Mr. Coogler worked on the script.

In many ways, Black Panther is part of a current wave of black superheroes, like Netflix’s Luke Cage and CW’s Black Lightning. But “Black Panther” has the setting of Wakanda, a fictional African country that is wealthy (thanks to vibranium, a mineral with energy-manipulating qualities) and technologically advanced. Part of the movie’s emotional and visual appeal lies in the fact that Wakanda has never been colonized.

“Wakanda is a kind of black utopia in our fight against colonialism and imperial control of black land and black people by white people,” said Deirdre Hollman, a founder of the annual Black Comic Book Festival at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture in Harlem. “To the black imagination, that means everything. In a comic book, it is a reality, and through a major motion picture, it’s even more tangibly and artistically a reality that we can explore for ourselves. There’s so much power that’s drawn from the notion that there was a community, a nation that resisted colonization and infiltration and subjugation.”

For Frederick Joseph, a marketing consultant who created the #BlackPantherChallenge, a GoFundMe campaign to buy tickets so youngsters can see “Black Panther” in theaters, the complexity of Wakanda takes on new meaning in our current moment. Compared with President Trump’s disparagement of Haiti and African nations, he said, “You have Wakanda as a place of Afro-futurism, of what African nations can be or what they could have been and still be had colonialism not taken place.” (Mr. Joseph’s campaign, which raised more than $40,000 to take children from the Boys & Girls Club of Harlem to the film, has led to more than 70 similar efforts.)

The Black Panther’s regal alter ego, Prince T’Challa, is a draw as well, said Jonathan Gray, author of the forthcoming “Illustrating the Race: Representing Blackness in American Comics.” He explained: “Now there you have every black boy’s fantasy. He is richer than Bill Gates, smarter than Elon Musk, better looking than Denzel.” And with vibranium, “he is the hereditary ruler of the richest nation on Earth. The movie is about wish fulfillment. When you see Bruce Wayne, this dashing billionaire, where is the black version of that? You got T’Challa.”

In this sense, “Black Panther” is as much an alternative to our contemporary racial discourse as it is a throwback, not only a desire for what could have been but also a nostalgia for what we once had. “I don’t think it’s a coincidence that this movie appears precisely in a moment in which our politics seems inescapable,” Mr. Gray said, adding later that “Black Panther” should be understood in a political context in which both the legal gains of the civil rights movement and the interracial optimism of the Obama era have been undermined.

For Marc Bernardin, an author of the comic book “Genius” and host of the podcast “Fatman on Batman” with the director Kevin Smith, the movie taps into “the cultural longing for what Obama was, the time in which you didn’t check your phone every day hoping the world wasn’t on fire again. A time where devaluation of young black life wasn’t as stark and awful as it feels like it is right now.”

Simply going to the movie can be interpreted as a small gesture of protest and a grand expression of cultural pride.

“Black Panther” has already become a kind of shared language. “Last week I was at the mall when another black dude passed by me,” Mr. Bernardin said. “We gave each other a nod, and he said, ‘Black Panther’s’ in a month, yo.’ That was his version of ‘what’s up,’ his way of marking of time.”

In addition to fans wearing custom-made Black Panther costumes and African-inspired haute couture to the premiere last month, African-American civic groups and others are buying out movie theaters so African-American children can experience the film with one another.

In Oakland, Calif., LaDawn James Williams originally intended to fly to New York to see it with her college friends from Howard University. Instead she plans to host a “Black Panther” screening for her local chapter of Jack and Jill of America. She, her husband, and their 9-year-old daughter and 7-year-old son will watch it with more than 90 other African-American families in a private viewing.

“We’ll be able to take the mask off,” she said. “It’s going to be really subtle, but we’re going to get certain things about the movie and its language that only we know. So I want this to be something we do together: my family, my chapter and my community.”

“April cried and stepped aside”: So goes one of Oscar Hammerstein’s lovely lyrics for “Carousel.” But apparently Broadway doesn’t listen.

Instead, every April, the theater district reaches a noisy climax as the season crashes into the Tony Awards eligibility deadline. This year, nine shows open between the 8th and the 26th, all of them would-be prize magnets. You probably already know a lot of the titles: Tina Fey’s musicalized “Mean Girls,” the two-part “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” and dueling Golden Age revivals of “My Fair Lady” and, yes, “Carousel.”

If you’ve got 15 hours and half a grand (or more) to spare, see ’em all.

But you might want to consider some less-buzzy titles, both on and Off Broadway, that are also, as Hammerstein wrote of May, “full of promises.”

Mark Medoff’s drama about the relationship between a smug speech therapist and the pugnacious woman he’s trying to teach is difficult to cast. Not so much because the woman, Sarah, is deaf; there are many excellent deaf actors. But she must also be young and ferocious and profoundly charismatic, which are the right words to describe Lauren Ridloff, a former Miss Deaf America. When I saw her in the Berkshires tryout of the play last summer, I thought she was sensational.

The speech therapist is also difficult to cast. Because he acts as an interpreter for both the hearing and the deaf, he must be fluent in American Sign Language while also speaking the lines. And because his character suffers from borderline obnoxiousness syndrome, he needs a lot of natural charm to counteract it.

The production opening on Broadway this month, directed by Kenny Leon, is lucky to have Joshua Jackson, best known for television work including “The Affair,” in the role. He’s an even match for Ms. Ridloff, which is saying something.

Tickets: childrenofalessergodbroadway.com

For the follow-up to her 2017 Pulitzer Prize winner, “Sweat,” Lynn Nottage leaves broken-down Reading, Pa., for Kenya, and leaves the hollowed-out factory workers there for … elephants?

Yes, “Mlima’s Tale,” a play about the black market “ivory highway,” stars Sahr Ngaujah (Broadway’s “Fela!”) as the title pachyderm. The rest of the Public Theater’s cast — Kevin Mambo, Ito Aghayere and Jojo Gonzalez — play a variety of characters, from poachers to collectors, who come into contact with Mlima serially, in the manner of “La Ronde.”

But don’t expect romantic roundelays from Ms. Nottage, for whom politics is never far from the surface. After all, this 90-minute drama, directed by Jo Bonney, opens just as the United States is lifting its Obama-era ban on big-game trophies and as the death of the last male white rhinoceros has assured the extinction of that overhunted animal.

Tickets: publictheater.org

George Bernard Shaw’s “Saint Joan” offers one of the most coveted title roles in the canon. Among the maids who have led France against the English in the eight Broadway productions since 1923 are Katharine Cornell, Uta Hagen, Siobhán McKenna, Diana Sands and Lynn Redgrave. Now, Condola Rashad — so startling last year in “A Doll’s House, Part 2” and a lovely Juliet in 2013 — is the ninth to step up to the stake.

Coveted it may be, but the role is tricky. How, after all, do you play a 17-year-old girl who believes she hears God in the bells of her hometown and not make her seem, in our day, crazy? How do you reconcile the historical Joan, burned for heresy and canonized for faith, with Shaw’s Joan, a martyr for the cause of freethinking?

Luckily, the Manhattan Theater Club production — at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, its Broadway house — is directed by Daniel Sullivan, who has experience solving such interpretive riddles. His 2010 staging of “The Merchant of Venice” made emotional sense of a play that many thought had become unproducible.

Tickets: www.manhattantheatreclub.com

From “Hair” to “Hamilton,” the Public Theater has a good track record with musicals that rethink what a musical can be. Its latest, “Miss You Like Hell,” with a book by Quiara Alegría Hudes (“In the Heights,” “Water by the Spoonful”) and songs by the indie singer-songwriter Erin McKeown, is no different: It tells an American road trip story, but not the usual kind.

Daphne Rubin-Vega (“Rent”) plays Beatriz, an artist who is also an undocumented Mexican immigrant, and Gizel Jiménez plays Olivia, her estranged 16-year-old daughter. Why Beatriz shows up at Olivia’s window one night, spiriting her away on a cross-country journey, is part of the mystery that gets cleared up as the miles go by.

Lear deBessonet, founder of the wonderful Public Works program, directs.

Tickets: publictheater.org

You wouldn’t think that a play starring Denzel Washington, who has made Broadway hits out of “Fences” and “Julius Caesar,” would need extra help luring an audience. But at four or five hours long, depending on how it’s cut and directed, Eugene O’Neill’s classic drama about the American cult of hopefulness can seem intimidating.

It needn’t be, as the most recent major revival, starring Nathan Lane at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, proved. For one thing, its portrait of the lost-soul habitués of a Manhattan saloon — a “Who’s Who in Dipsomania” — is never less than compelling. For another, those barflies, tarts, anarchists and con artists are all juicy roles that, when cast well, promise fireworks.

You would expect fireworks anyway from a production directed by George C. Wolfe, who brings a musical sensibility to large-scale plays. (He directed the Broadway premiere of “Angels in America.”) But Mr. Washington is also surrounded at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater by a cherry-picked company of top stage actors, including Bill Irwin, David Morse, Tammy Blanchard, Reg Rogers and Frank Wood.

Tickets: icemanonbroadway.com

One attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, is already investigating Donald J. Trump over possible violations of New York State law at his charity foundation.

Another, Maura Healey of Massachusetts, has joined Mr. Schneiderman in an investigation into whether Exxon Mobil — whose chief executive, Rex W. Tillerson, is Mr. Trump’s choice for secretary of state — lied to investors and the public about the threat of climate change.

Ms. Healey also has a new fund-raising pitch: “I won’t hesitate to take Donald Trump to court if he carries out his unconstitutional campaign promises,” she recently wrote to supporters.

A third, Representative Xavier Becerra, who was chosen this month to become California’s attorney general, has dared the Trump administration to “come at us” over issues including immigration, climate change and health care.

As Democrats steel themselves for the day next month when the White House door will slam on their backs, some of the country’s more liberal state attorneys general have vowed to use their power to check and balance Mr. Trump’s Washington.

If the Trump administration withdraws from environmental, antitrust or financial regulations, the attorneys general say they will plug regulatory holes that may gape wide open, deploying state laws like New York’s Martin Act, which allows the state attorney general to pursue wide-ranging investigations on Wall Street.

They have pledged to defend undocumented immigrants, and to combat hate crimes that many believe were unleashed by Mr. Trump’s polarizing campaign.

And if Mr. Trump’s policies veer toward the unconstitutional, several of the 10 current and incoming Democratic attorneys general interviewed recently said they would apply a remedy favored by Mr. Trump himself: a lawsuit.

The strategy could be as simple as mirroring the blueprint laid out by their Republican colleagues, who made something of a legal specialty of tormenting President Obama. Conservative attorneys general in states including Texas, Virginia and Florida have sued the Obama administration dozens of times, systematically battering Mr. Obama’s signature health care, environmental and immigration policies in the courts.

One of them, Scott Pruitt, the attorney general of Oklahoma, who used his office to bayonet Mr. Obama’s clean-energy regulations, was just chosen by Mr. Trump to become the new head of the Environmental Protection Agency.

Mr. Schneiderman — who established himself early as a nuisance to Mr. Trump when he sued him over Trump University, negotiating a $25 million settlement — pounced on the Pruitt selection, calling him “an agent of the oil and gas industry” and promising to push an E.P.A. under Mr. Pruitt to uphold environmental laws. Ms. Healey has also expressed concern about the nominations of Mr. Pruitt and Mr. Tillerson.

The jockeying to begin hostilities with the Trump administration is a measure of how the country’s widening political divide has transformed the offices of state attorneys general into legal laboratories and sharpened them into political scalpels.

They were once primarily local law enforcement figures who rarely pursued issues beyond state borders. But with the growth of their clout and ambition over the last three decades, they have become magnets for lobbyists, campaign donors and other corporate representatives looking to intervene in regulatory policy and tip investigations, a New York Times investigation found in 2014.

Under President Bill Clinton, attorneys general pioneered the major multistate lawsuit that has served as a model for interstate collaboration since, with nearly all the states joining together to win a groundbreaking settlement with the tobacco industry. Liberal states later collaborated to force the E.P.A. under President George W. Bush to regulate greenhouse gas emissions, winning a Supreme Court decision that made it easier for the states to sue the federal government.

It was under Mr. Obama that states came into their own as political activists. One group of Republican attorneys general began holding weekly conference calls to strategize ways to weaken the Affordable Care Act months before it became law in March 2010, filing their lawsuit minutes after Mr. Obama signed the bill.

For the moment, the precise shape of Trump-branded targets is hard to make out. At the annual meeting of the National Association of Attorneys General in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., two weeks ago, bipartisan bewilderment about the president-elect’s true intentions abounded. (Republican state attorneys general will slightly outnumber Democrats in 2017.)

“People are coming up to me and saying, ‘What’s going to happen?’” said James E. Tierney, a former attorney general of Maine, who ran a program studying attorneys general at Columbia Law School. Mr. Tierney, a Democrat, now lectures at Harvard Law School. “There’s a lot of eye-rolling down here, in both parties, like, ‘Oh my God.’”

Even as attorneys general from blue strongholds like California, Massachusetts and New York hasten to brand themselves as leaders of the opposition, many of their Democratic colleagues are striking a less antagonistic note as they wait to see how Mr. Trump will govern.

One incoming attorney general, T.J. Donovan of Vermont, said he was ready to collaborate with the federal government to tackle the heroin epidemic in his state, among other issues — and to dissent when necessary. “Let’s be patient and wait and see what happens,” he said. “But at the same time, let’s be prepared.”

Mr. Schneiderman, it seems, is not straining to give Mr. Trump the benefit of the doubt. Since Election Day, he said in an interview, he has spoken to several attorneys general about teaming up, as Democratic attorneys general have already done to defend Mr. Obama’s clean-power plan against Republican legal challenges.

“Life just got a lot more exciting for those of us at the state level who are now the first line of defense,” said Mr. Schneiderman, adapting a favorite catchphrase of Republican attorneys general.

Their litigiousness turned attorneys general like Greg Abbott, now the governor of Texas, into right-wing luminaries. He often rallied crowds by saying, “I go to the office in the morning, I sue Barack Obama, and then I go home.”

Next year, there is likely to be no shortage of Democrats who can say the same about Mr. Trump.

The states’ rights arguments that Republicans have made gospel for nearly eight years — that states must serve as a check against federal overreach — are likely to become convenient for Democrats. So are the legal tactics that Republican attorneys general used to stifle Obama administration programs, including filing lawsuits in front of friendly local judges to win nationwide injunctions against policies they hoped to stop, said Amanda Frost, a professor at American University’s Washington College of Law.

With Mr. Trump’s ascension, attorneys general of both parties may shuck any remaining veneer of nonpartisanship, even as they continue to wade across party boundaries on investigations involving consumer protection or pharmaceutical pricing.

According to Paul Nolette, a political-science professor at Marquette University, who studies attorneys general, Republican attorneys general filed partisan legal briefs in only five Supreme Court cases during the Clinton administration, a figure that rose to 97 in the first seven years of the Obama administration.

“Things are being driven more by partisan politics,” Mr. Nolette said. “On virtually every hot-button issue you can imagine, A.G.s are signaling where they stand.”

As Mr. Abbott and Mr. Pruitt found, there are certain advantages to occupying a high-profile law enforcement office with an anti-Washington megaphone.

Josh Shapiro, the incoming Democratic attorney general of Pennsylvania, said he had turned down a run for the Senate this year in favor of the attorney general race. “I believe it to be the most impactful job in government today,” he said.

Other Democrats said they were watching how Mr. Trump would treat the Consumer Financial Protection Board and the Federal Trade Commission.

Under Mr. Obama, attorneys general have grown used to working closely with both agencies on consumer and antitrust issues — “It’s been the golden years,” said Tom Miller, the longtime Democratic attorney general of Iowa — and several said they feared federal regulatory might would shrivel under the new administration, leaving states to try to hold the line with far fewer resources.

“I don’t want to pick fights before there are fights,” said Brian Frosh, the Democratic attorney general of Maryland. “But based on the campaign, there’s cause for concern.”

BRIDGEPORT, CONN. — Joseph P. Ganim, the mayor of Connecticut’s largest city, is selling a message of imperfection, but also redemption.

He is the embodiment of the second chance: After serving as Bridgeport’s mayor in the 1990s and early 2000s, Mr. Ganim, a Democrat, was convicted on multiple charges of corruption and sent to federal prison. Seven years later, he emerged from his “time away,” as he calls it, a changed man.

He returned to City Hall as mayor in 2015, vowing to make his mayoral redux squeaky clean — even hiring, as a senior adviser, the F.B.I. agent who was a key member of the prosecution team that convicted him.

Now, Mr. Ganim is hoping to pull off an even more improbable comeback: He is seeking the Democratic nomination for governor amid a crowded field of candidates bidding to replace the Democratic two-term governor, Dannel P. Malloy, who is not seeking re-election.

Mr. Ganim believes that his life experience will resonate with voters across the state, and not only in cities like Bridgeport, Hartford and New Haven that are troubled by crime, unemployment and poverty.

“There are people in every pocket of Connecticut who are struggling,” he said. “I’m ‘second chance.’ But there are people who are still looking for their first chance. One thing I do bring — imperfect as I might be — is the experience of solving problems in a public-sector environment.”

Not everyone thinks that Mr. Ganim would be an ideal nominee; some Democratic leaders fear that his criminal background could damage their party’s chance of victory in November, even when a huge Democratic turnout, fueled by anti-Trump vitriol, is expected in a state where Democrats easily outnumber Republicans.

“He is the guy who did wrong, came back and did right, and now wants to be redeemed, which is a very good story line,” said Hank Sheinkopf, a veteran Democratic political consultant who is not involved in the governor’s race. “But he is also the one Democrat whom the Republicans might actually be able to beat come the fall. That’s what the panic is about.”

Yet others believe that Mr. Ganim, 58, will do well at the party’s nominating convention this spring. They cite the breadth of his delegate support in Bridgeport, a gritty coastal city of 150,000 where he has earned praise for attracting development, stabilizing finances and bolstering the police.

Even if Mr. Ganim does not win the party’s nomination, which requires more than 50 percent of the delegate vote, he could garner the 15 percent needed for a spot on the primary ballot. Failing that, he would have to obtain thousands of petition signatures, something he pledges to do.

“Democrats are saying, ‘Holy cow, this can’t happen,’ ” said Peter Spain, a Democratic member of Bridgeport’s City Council and a longtime critic of Mr. Ganim. “It’s wrong for someone who totally betrayed the public trust to come back and shrug it off and act like the people of Bridgeport forgave him.”

Many in Bridgeport did forgive him, however. In 2015, Mr. Ganim managed to defeat the incumbent mayor, Bill Finch, in the Democratic primary and went on to beat his closest opponent in the general election by two-to-one.

That same year, Bridgeport conducted a citywide tax reassessment that revealed a sobering trend. The value of Bridgeport’s taxable property had fallen by a staggering $1 billion, to $6 billion. That — coupled with a $20 million budget deficit left by the previous administration — prompted the city to raise the effective tax rate on properties by nearly 29 percent.

As he has traveled the state in recent months, Mr. Ganim said he found that residents do not necessarily share his critics’ view that his message only plays in the state’s urban centers. “They have a viewpoint that my candidacy may sell in Bridgeport, but it won’t in Mayberry,” he said, referring to the 1960s sitcom “The Andy Griffith Show.”

Mr. Ganim said he has been welcomed by many in the state’s more affluent sections, noting that he, too, is a product of the suburbs, hailing from a well-to-do family that moved to Easton from Bridgeport when he was a young teenager. “It’s not like I’m an alien to the suburbs, and my children live there,” said Mr. Ganim, who is divorced.

In a field of candidates short on household names, Mr. Ganim’s name recognition could, in some strange way, actually help him. Many voters outside the Bridgeport area are unaware of his corruption conviction, but might recognize his name just the same.

Some 20 candidates from the Republican and Democratic Parties have expressed an interest in running for governor.

On the Democratic side, they include Susan Bysiewicz, a former secretary of state; Jonathan A. Harris, former commissioner of the state consumer protection department; Luke Bronin, the mayor of Hartford who was a Rhodes scholar and a treasury official under President Obama, and Ned Lamont, a prominent businessman and perennial candidate.

On the Republican side, candidates include Mark D. Boughton, mayor of Danbury; Prasad Srinivasan, a physician and member of the state House of Representatives; Mike Handler, chief financial officer for the city of Stamford, and David M. Walker, former comptroller general of the United States.

According to a political news program on Connecticut Public Radio, an internal poll by one of the Democratic challengers showed Mr. Ganim a strong second after Ms. Bysiewicz.

His criminal past, however, is not Mr. Ganim’s only obstacle; last November, a federal judge dealt a blow to Mr. Ganim’s campaign by affirming a state law that prevents those convicted of corruption from accessing state campaign funds. (Mr. Ganim had challenged the law on the grounds that it violated his constitutional rights.)

Mr. Ganim had raised a total of $200,000, mostly from small fund-raisers like one on Friday at a cigar lounge in Bridgeport, as of campaign filings through the end of 2017.

By contrast, several Republican candidates, including Mr. Boughton and Mr. Walker, have already achieved the $250,000 donation threshold (with contributions of less than $100 each), necessary to qualify for millions in grants through Connecticut’s campaign-financing system. Another Republican, David Stemerman, a Greenwich resident who made his money in hedge funds, had more than $1.5 million in his war chest.

Among Democrats, Ms. Bysiewicz had raised just over $140,000, and Mr. Bronin, who began his campaign fund-raising late last year, raised $113,000 between Nov. 27 and Dec. 31.

No matter who wins the Democratic primary, Republicans still see the governorship as winnable, both because of Mr. Malloy’s status, according to a recent survey, as the least popular governor in the nation, and past trends in the state’s elections.

“This isn’t a horse race, it’s a stampede,” said William F. B. O’Reilly, a Republican consultant. “Republicans should have no business running in this political environment, but outgoing Governor Malloy’s unpopular tax hikes should make the race competitive.”

Ronald Schurin, an associate professor of political science at the University of Connecticut, said that even with Democratic voters expected to flock to the polls because of their anger toward President Trump, they had a history of splitting their votes between members of both major parties in Connecticut.

“Even while we were electing Bill Clinton president, we were voting for John Rowland, a Republican, for governor,” said Professor Schurin, who teaches a course on state politics.

As for Mr. Ganim’s chances in the race, Professor Schurin said he doubted the mayor would win the party’s endorsement, given the “huge mountain to climb” in the general election. “It’s the most improbable scenario I could imagine,” he said. “But then I never thought Trump would be elected president.”

WASHINGTON —  When President Obama first won the White House, he recruited Ray LaHood, a Republican congressman, to join his cabinet. The appointment, Mr. Obama said, “reflects that bipartisan spirit” that would distinguish his presidency.

Seven years later and now out of office, Mr. LaHood has concluded that the opposite turned out to be true. Rather than reflecting the bipartisan spirit of the Obama presidency, Mr. LaHood said his appointment as secretary of transportation came to reflect its failure.

Despite the glowing words, Mr. Obama abandoned his promise to govern across the aisle, Mr. LaHood said in an interview. The only elected Republican in Mr. Obama’s original cabinet, Mr. LaHood said the president never made a sustained effort to reach out and gave up too easily. As a result, he became isolated and reliant on a group of like-minded advisers.

That assessment from a man who served under Mr. Obama for four years punctuates Mr. LaHood’s new memoir, “Seeking Bipartisanship: My Life in Politics,” published last month by Cambria Press. While he expressed warm feelings toward Mr. Obama and approval of many of his policies, Mr. LaHood lamented the partisan fever that characterized his time in office.

“I do not believe the White House ever committed fully to a genuine bipartisan approach to policy making, despite the president’s words to the contrary,” Mr. LaHood wrote in the book, which he produced with Frank H. Mackaman.

While he said he believed that Mr. Obama was sincere when he said he wanted bipartisanship, the president was hamstrung “by mistakes in judgment and political calculation that prevented cooperation between the political parties and sacrificed vision too easily for short-term gain.”

The book is the latest from an administration insider to publicly air criticism of Mr. Obama, after memoirs by Robert M. Gates and Leon E. Panetta, who each served as defense secretary. By the seventh year of an administration, such books become increasingly common, and the White House had no comment about the latest on Wednesday.

In the past, Mr. Obama’s aides have argued that his efforts to forge bipartisanship were genuine but met with the back of the hand. Republicans, the White House has said, opted for a deliberate strategy of obstruction across the board, pointing to a comment made by Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, before the 2010 midterm elections saying that “the single most important thing we want to achieve is for President Obama to be a one-term president.”

Mr. LaHood, however, said Mr. Obama shared responsibility, too. “President Obama depended almost exclusively on a handful of folks situated in the White House,” he wrote. “He rarely sought counsel outside that group. He did not, as other presidents have done, place a high value on consulting with members of Congress.”

“As time passed,” he added, “the president seemed to me to become more isolated, more insulated from those outside the in-group, less engaged with others.”

Still, he did not let fellow Republicans off the hook. Mr. LaHood clearly felt disconnected from the “ideological rigidity” of his party’s new generation, who “inhabit a different world from mine,” as he put it. “Many of them do not want Congress to pass bills. Any government action is, by their definition, bad for the country.”

That was never Mr. LaHood’s philosophy. Mr. LaHood was literally the proverbial politician from Peoria, elected to the House from Illinois in 1994 along with a wave of Republicans led by Newt Gingrich. The Lebanese-American son of parents who ran a working-class restaurant, Mr. LaHood believed in getting things done and was a popular figure with friends on both sides of the aisle.

One of those friends was Rahm Emanuel, then a Democratic congressman from Illinois. When Mr. Obama was elected in 2008 and tapped Mr. Emanuel as his White House chief of staff, Mr. Emanuel helped bring Mr. LaHood into the cabinet.

While Mr. Gates was held over from a Republican administration, Mr. LaHood was the only Republican in the first cabinet who had been elected to public office. In his second term, Mr. Obama appointed former Senator Chuck Hagel, a Republican from Nebraska, as defense secretary, although he did not last long.

In the interview and the book, Mr. LaHood recounted his excitement at joining the new administration — and his quick disappointment at its opening gambits. In the interest of passing an economic stimulus package quickly to counter the deep recession he inherited, Mr. Obama agreed to a strategy of allowing Nancy Pelosi, the California Democrat who then served as House speaker, to pass it without Republicans.

“I think they felt like they need to push this through quickly to get the economy moving,” Mr. LaHood said in the interview. “And, boom, they made a decision that they were going to pass economic stimulus with just Democratic votes. That was the beginning of the end of bipartisanship.”

When Mr. Emanuel asked him to call 10 to 15 of his former Republican colleagues to lobby for the stimulus, Mr. LaHood said each complained of being shut out by Democrats. As a result, he refused to help anymore.

“I called Rahm and said, ‘This is mission impossible,’” he recounted in the book. “I stopped making calls. I did not expect Republicans to roll over and accept the president’s ambitious economic recovery agenda whole cloth.”

Mr. LaHood said that set the tone for the rest of Mr. Obama’s administration. “House Republicans deserve a fair amount of blame for the lock-step vote on stimulus,” he wrote, because they would not meet Mr. Obama halfway. But in handing the project over to Mrs. Pelosi, he said, “the price we paid was incalculable.”

He added, “The White House had reached this decision without consulting me, the person they had selected to promote bipartisanship.”

Likewise, Mr. LaHood noted that cabinet meetings were scripted affairs rather than opportunities for the president to hear from anyone other than his closest aides. Cabinet meetings were held infrequently and mainly to show off what the administration was already doing, not deliberate about what it should do. “It was all for show,” he said.

Mr. LaHood said all this more in sorrow than anger. In the interview, he recalled a recent friendly visit with Mr. Obama on Air Force One when the president traveled to Chicago. “He was very positive,” Mr. LaHood said. “I think he was really feeling like he was living the dream. He’s not up for election. He can do what he wants to do, say what he wants to say.”

He said that he did not discuss his critique with the president but that he would send him a copy of the book. “Bipartisanship is in his DNA. I’m proof of it,” Mr. LaHood said. “But time and intervening circumstance didn’t allow him to do it in the way that he would have wanted to.”

And then there is Mr. LaHood’s old home, Congress, where the ruling Republicans are not the same as when he was there. He knows that firsthand. His son, Darin LaHood, was just elected to his old seat in a special election in September.

“He’s a lot more conservative than I am, which is O.K.,” the elder Mr. LaHood said. “He got elected. I didn’t. He’ll be a good member.”