WASHINGTON — Representative Trey Gowdy is known on Capitol Hill as a tough investigator of Democrats and a fierce Republican partisan. He is also the only Republican on the House Intelligence Committee to have read all of the sensitive intelligence underlying a contested Republican memo on the origins of the F.B.I.’s Russia investigation.

So when Mr. Gowdy, a South Carolina Republican, emerged as a strong voice contradicting President Trump’s contention that the memo “totally vindicates” him, his words had particular meaning.

“I actually don’t think it has any impact on the Russia probe,” Mr. Gowdy said Sunday on CBS’s “Face the Nation.”

Mr. Gowdy is not alone. At least four other Republicans — Representatives Brad Wenstrup of Ohio, Chris Stewart of Utah, Will Hurd of Texas and Peter T. King of New York — have said they do not believe that the memo necessarily exonerates the president on the question of whether his campaign colluded with Russia to interfere in the 2016 presidential election.

And, they said, it should in no way undermine the continuing investigation of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, into Russia’s effort to influence the 2016 election and whether it involved anyone in the president’s political operation — an investigation that Mr. Trump has repeatedly called a “witch hunt.”

“It’s a factual answer,” Mr. King said Monday about Mr. Gowdy’s stand. “I’ve said the same thing. I wasn’t surprised at all to hear Trey say it.”

Mr. Stewart, speaking on Fox News Sunday, was equally pointed. “This memo has frankly nothing at all to do with a special counsel,” he said.

The previously classified memo, made public on Friday by the House Intelligence Committee, suggests that the F.B.I. and the Justice Department abused their authority in seeking a warrant to spy on one of the president’s former campaign advisers. It claimed law enforcement officials omitted relevant information in their application for a warrant to wiretap the former campaign adviser, Carter Page.

But the memo — which Mr. Gowdy said he was “intricately involved” in drafting — did not make the case promised by some Republicans: that the evidence it contained would cast serious doubt on the origins of the Russia investigation and call into question any conclusion that Mr. Mueller might reach.

“As I watched him on ‘Face The Nation,’ what he said was pretty clear from my perspective,” said Senator Tim Scott, Republican of South Carolina and a close friend of Mr. Gowdy’s. “He put the memo in one tranche and put the Russia investigation in another tranche, and I think one doesn’t cancel out the other.”

To be sure, the tumult around the memo has had an impact. It has helped bolster the views of Mr. Trump’s most vociferous partisans who insist that the Russia investigation was started under false pretenses by an F.B.I. leadership that favored Hillary Clinton and is hopelessly biased against Mr. Trump. The president has fed that notion with a steady stream of tweets, such as, “Their was no Collusion and there was no Obstruction (the word now used because, after one year of looking endlessly and finding NOTHING, collusion is dead). This is an American disgrace!”

And the attention on the spectacle surrounding the memo has taken the public’s eye off the Russia investigation itself.

In that sense, Mr. Gowdy’s public protestations against the president’s conclusions are contradicted by his private involvement in the drafting of the memo.

But in Republican circles, Mr. Gowdy’s words matter.

“I don’t think that Trey was looking to contradict anybody,” said Representative Thomas J. Rooney, Republican of Florida. “I think that Trey speaks from a place of judicial and lawyerly knowledge that a lot of people don’t have or comprehend.”

Mr. Gowdy, 53, is best known on Capitol Hill for two things: his ever-shifting hairstyles and for the way he grilled Mrs. Clinton while leading the House inquiry into the 2012 attacks on Benghazi, Libya. He has a tendency to proclaim bipartisan intentions to reporters before carving up his political opponents.

Close observers of Mr. Gowdy see him as a man in tension with himself. He is smart about politics and almost certainly knew that the release of the memo — known as the “Nunes memo” after Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California and chairman of the House Intelligence Committee — would become fodder for Republicans, including Mr. Trump, to undercut the Mueller investigation.

But Mr. Gowdy — who told CBS he has never met or had a conversation with Mr. Trump — is also versed in the law. In announcing last week that he intends to retire from the House, he said he had concluded that his skills “are better utilized in a courtroom than in Congress.” Colleagues say that his years as a prosecutor have trained him to choose his words carefully.

“The president is a layman when it comes to the law,” Mr. King said. “Trey is a career prosecutor, a veteran prosecutor, and he’s going to be carrying the ball as we go forward on this investigation, and he has to be careful to maintain his credibility.”

While Mr. Gowdy can be “very aggressive and very hard-hitting,” Mr. King added, “he’s also very restrained, and I don’t think you’ll find that he ever overshot the mark.”

Eric Snyder, the State Department lawyer who dealt directly with Mr. Gowdy when he was investigating the department’s handling of Benghazi attacks, offered a similar assessment.

“We were on opposite sides of a very contentious and highly disputed investigation with very different constituents,” Mr. Snyder said. “A lot of people would say that he was unfair and driven by politics, but I didn’t get that from him. I think he believed in what he was doing and believed he was doing the right thing, but at the same time he took a lot of heat from his own party for not doing things that he knew were inappropriate.”

Mr. Gowdy, who in addition to serving on the Intelligence Committee is chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, was elected to Congress in 2010 on that year’s Tea Party wave.

On Capitol Hill, he quickly made a name for himself with his aggressive questioning of Obama administration officials during committee hearings.

“He’s a former prosecutor and I think he looks at everything as a prosecutor does,” said David Woodard, a political scientist at Clemson University who ran Mr. Gowdy’s first campaign, for district attorney. “Obviously, he has a good political bone, but he’s not one who measures out the effect of what he says.”

In 2014, then-Speaker John A. Boehner picked Mr. Gowdy to head the House Select Committee on Benghazi. Mr. Gowdy promised a process that would be thorough and fair.

“This will not be what people on the left fear it will be,’’ he said in an interview at the time.

Then the Benghazi inquiry became everything the left feared — and more — after the disclosure that Mrs. Clinton had kept a personal email account as secretary of state.

When the Intelligence Committee, led by Mr. Nunes, began digging into the F.B.I.’s application to wiretap Mr. Page under the terms of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, it reached agreement with the Justice Department that just one person would review the intelligence that formed the basis of the application. Mr. Nunes picked Mr. Gowdy, figuring his skills as a prosecutor would come in handy.

Mr. Scott said Mr. Gowdy was not likely to miss the rough-and-tumble of such politically charged matters — or the gradations of truth in Washington.

“By definition the political process is not simply a black-and-white process,” Mr. Scott said. “He prefers clarity and the ability to reach a decision based on all information that’s being gathered, as opposed to going around the circle several times.”

TOKYO — For Japan, the hits just keep on coming.

Only last week, Tokyo was scrambling to recover after being caught flat-footed by President Trump’s abrupt acceptance of an invitation to meet Kim Jong-un personally to discuss North Korea’s nuclear program.

On Friday, officials in Japan awoke to the news that it was the largest American ally to be left off a list of countries temporarily exempted from stiff tariffs on steel and aluminum imports by the Trump administration.

The omission of Japan, the largest foreign supplier to be so excluded, was especially pointed. Australia, Brazil, Mexico and even South Korea, which is engaged with the United States in tense renegotiations of a free-trade pact, appeared on the list.

The move also seemed a personal snub of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, who has courted Mr. Trump through rounds of golf, frequent telephone calls and lavish steak meals.

“It’s really kind of almost tragicomic,” said Koichi Nakano, a political scientist at Sophia University in Tokyo and frequent critic of the Japanese leader. “Abe was being really sycophantic in trying to please Trump, and at a certain point, quite recently, he was talked about as the closest friend that Trump has. And it all turns out that that wasn’t good for anything when it comes to furthering the national interests of Japan.”

To be sure, Mr. Abe is not the first American ally to be so spurned. Theresa May of Britain, Justin Trudeau of Canada and Angela Merkel of Germany have all had turns at being Mr. Trump’s slighted friend.

Japan could yet win an exemption from the new tariffs. Mr. Trump’s announcement offered a path for countries left off the initial list to “discuss with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports of steel articles.” This week, Japan’s trade minister, Hiroshige Seko, told reporters there was a “high chance” that some of its steel and aluminum products would be exempted.

But for anyone who has been paying attention, there have been hints all along that in matters of trade, Tokyo should regard Mr. Trump as much “frenemy” as friend.

During the presidential campaign, he seemed to harbor three-decades-old perceptions of Japan, chastising it for “crushing” the United States in trade, invoking the specter of the 1980s and the height of the trade wars between the two countries. After he was elected, he threatened to impose a “big border tax” on Toyota if it built a new auto plant in Mexico.

In niggling comments during a visit to Tokyo last fall, Mr. Trump told Japanese executives to “try building your cars in the United States instead of shipping them over,” ignoring the fact that Japanese carmakers build nearly four million vehicles in plants in the United States annually, more than twice the number the industry ships from Japan.

On Friday, Mr. Seko, the trade minister, said it was “extremely regrettable” Japan had not immediately been exempted from the steel and aluminum tariffs.

Still, analysts said Japanese officials probably realized it was only a matter of time before Mr. Trump took action on trade.

“They knew that this was a president who had pretty well-established views when it came to how he thought about Japan and the economic relationship with the U.S.,” said Tobias Harris, a vice president and Japan analyst at Teneo Intelligence, a political risk consultancy based in New York.

What’s more, tensions between Japan and the United States are hardly unique to Mr. Trump’s administration.

“If you look back far enough, periods of friction amidst close security cooperation goes back to the early 1970s and is more the rule than the exception,” Mr. Harris said. “I just don’t believe that official Japan convinced themselves that because of the rapport between the two leaders, that they were going to escape scrutiny.”

Analysts said Mr. Trump had left Japan off the exemption list as a negotiating tactic to try to force it into bilateral free-trade talks.

“He wants something like some concessions from Japan regarding the auto market or maybe agriculture,” said Shujiro Urata, dean and professor in the Graduate School of Asia-Pacific Studies at Waseda University in Tokyo. “So in order to get these concessions, this could be a very effective strategy.”

When announcing $60 billion in tariffs against China on Thursday, Mr. Trump directed a sugarcoated barb against Japan and Mr. Abe.

“I’ll talk to Prime Minister Abe of Japan and others — great guy, friend of mine — and there will be a little smile on their face,” Mr. Trump said. “And the smile is, ‘I can’t believe we’ve been able to take advantage of the United States for so long.’ So those days are over.”

Analysts said that Mr. Trump was clearly playing to his domestic audience.

“He has to promote this to his supporters in the United States,” said Kazuhiro Maeshima, professor of politics at Sophia University. “In the history between Japan and the United States over the past 30 years, Japan has been seen as an archenemy in the trade wars, so the voters’ image of Japan is bad. The reality is that China dominates the trade deficit, but the reality and image are different.”

In any case, the tariffs are unlikely to hurt Japan’s economy that much. The country’s steel exports to the United States represent just 5 percent of its total steel exports, and it produces very little aluminum.

“The real serious problem for the world is China’s excessive production,” said Masahiko Hosokawa, a professor at Chubu University and a former director of the American division of Japan’s Trade Ministry.

“Unless the problem of China’s excessive steel production is resolved, the products will only flood into Asian markets if the U.S. stops importing them,” Mr. Hosokawa said. “The products that are supposed to go to the U.S. will flood the Asian market and steel prices will continue to decline.”

Mr. Trump’s actions feed concern in Asia about Chinese dominance. Because he is “unpredictable and kind of capricious,” Mr. Urata said, more countries will perceive the United States as “a very difficult country to work with that we cannot trust and rely on,” leaving a void that China will increasingly fill.

In the immediate term, Japan’s hand is weakened by the fact that Mr. Abe is embroiled in a scandal involving allegations that he influenced a sweetheart land deal for a crony.

That will make it more difficult for Mr. Abe to negotiate with Mr. Trump from a position of strength, or to persuade Japanese businesses to consider any trade concessions. “Mr. Abe’s power to persuade businesses and to talk with the U.S. is much weaker than it was even two months ago,” Mr. Maeshima said.

Then again, Mr. Trump could reverse course at any moment.

Under the tariff laws, the United States “could exempt Japan tomorrow, or they could decide ‘no, no, no, Europe and Canada, we’re actually going to apply this law to you,’” said Chad Bown, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. “It gives tremendous discretion to the president to do whatever he wants.”

WASHINGTON — With just 980 days to go until the next presidential election, President Trump said Tuesday that he would run again in 2020, an announcement that several White House advisers said simply meant the president would step up his preferred and much-missed activity of performing for an adoring crowd.

In effect, it continues the permanent campaign of a president who, from the time he took office over a year ago, has signaled his interest to run again and has kept holding campaign-style rallies. The president officially filed for re-election with the Federal Election Commission on Jan. 20, 2017, the day of his inauguration.

It was also a statement aimed at ending speculation among allies and critics that Mr. Trump, who has faced a series of personal scandals, and whose campaign remains the subject of an F.B.I. investigation into possible ties to Russia, might not run for re-election at all.

But another part of Mr. Trump’s announcement — that Brad Parscale, his 2016 campaign digital director, would be elevated to campaign manager — signaled a more complicated political maneuver on behalf of the president’s family, and specifically Jared Kushner, his son-in-law, according to the president’s advisers.

Mr. Kushner was close to Mr. Parscale during the 2016 campaign, and putting him in an expanded role was widely seen as a power play by the president’s son-in-law. It was first breathlessly reported by the Drudge Report — and billed as both a “historical record” and a “bold move.” Matt Drudge, the website’s proprietor, is in frequent contact with Mr. Kushner.

Mr. Parscale, 42, is a frequent presence in Washington. The rare scruffily bearded man in Mr. Trump’s clean-shaven orbit, Mr. Parscale often spends one or two nights a week holding court with vendors and people he describes as “fans” in the lobby of the Trump International Hotel.

Mr. Parscale did not respond to a request for comment on Tuesday, but in an interview with The New York Times in June, he described himself as a “blue-collar kid from Kansas who understood what Trump was saying,” and spoke at length about his devotion to the Trump family.

“I was always the family guy on the campaign,” Mr. Parscale said. “If I saw or heard anything that I didn’t think was good for the family, my loyalty was to the family first.”

In another interview, in August, Mr. Parscale described his role on the 2016 campaign.

“I build the plumbing,” he said. “I changed the plumbing of campaigns, from moving it from TV to digital.”

Kellyanne Conway, Mr. Trump’s campaign manager in 2016 and now a counselor to the president, described Mr. Parscale as an “unbroken thread” from that campaign. “It should surprise no one that family members and a major player who has not come inside the administration would be called upon to redouble that effort for the re-elect,” Ms. Conway said.

Last year Mr. Parscale also took a sizable cut from the Trump campaign. The biggest single expenditure of the $17 million it spent in 2017 was the $5.5 million it paid for digital advertising, nearly all of which passed through firms owned by Mr. Parscale.

Other notable expenditures were $3.1 million on legal expenses, $1.5 million on merchandise — including the red Make America Great Again hats — and nearly $800,000 on Trump properties, including rent on the campaign’s Trump Tower office space. There are no comparable numbers for any previous presidential campaign, because past presidents did not file to run for re-election until well after the halfway point of their first term.

The campaign’s announcement made a point of emphasizing Mr. Parscale’s loyalty to the Trump family. The statement featured quotations from Mr. Kushner and Eric Trump, the president’s middle son, who, along with his wife, Lara, and older brother, Donald Jr., have been active in the campaign.

Mr. Kushner said Mr. Parscale “was essential in bringing a disciplined technology and data-driven approach to how the 2016 campaign was run,” adding, “His leadership and expertise will help build a best-in-class campaign.”

Eric Trump described Mr. Parscale as “an amazing talent” and said he “has our family’s complete trust and is the perfect person to be at the helm of the campaign.”

Still, the choice of Mr. Parscale raised eyebrows because he is not deeply rooted in politics or political strategy. When the campaign gave presentations to reporters in the final two weeks of the 2016 campaign, Mr. Parscale used the website 270towin.com to show the path to victory, as opposed to presenting sophisticated models.

The specifics of Mr. Parscale’s involvement in the Trump campaign, including his tactics to reach voters using social media platforms, has also been of interest to lawmakers on Capitol Hill. Last year, he agreed to meet with the House Intelligence Committee as part of its investigation into Russia’s meddling in the 2016 election.

“I am unaware of any Russian involvement in the digital and data operations of the 2016 Trump presidential campaign,” Mr. Parscale said after he agreed to appear. “The only collaboration I am aware of in the Trump digital campaign was with staff provided to the campaign by Facebook, Google and Twitter.”

President Trump may be itching to hit the campaign trail, where he is happiest, but the White House still has a rail-thin political operation. Despite efforts to hire new staff members, it has struggled for months to catch up to speed. And on Tuesday, the West Wing was set to lose another key aide: Mr. Kushner’s spokesman, Josh Raffel, said he would be departing.

The 2020 campaign announcement, as is common in Trump world, didn’t quite go off without a hitch: For starters, it initially alarmed ethics experts, who said its description of Mr. Kushner as “senior adviser and assistant to the president, and President Trump’s son-in-law,” was in violation of the Hatch Act, which prohibits political activities by government employees. The announcement was later edited to remove “senior adviser.”

“We’ve got a campaign that’s obsessed with campaigning and doesn’t even know what the Hatch Act rules are around Jared Kushner,” Richard W. Painter, who served as a White House ethics lawyer in the George W. Bush administration, said in an interview. “They don’t have any idea what the rules are, and they really don’t care.”

The timing of the announcement also came hours before the disclosure that Mr. Kushner’s security clearance level had been downgraded.

WASHINGTON — For Elliott Broidy, Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign represented an unparalleled political and business opportunity.

An investor and defense contractor, Mr. Broidy became a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s campaign when most elite Republican donors were keeping their distance, and Mr. Trump in turn overlooked the lingering whiff of scandal from Mr. Broidy’s 2009 guilty plea in a pension fund bribery case.

After Mr. Trump’s election, Mr. Broidy quickly capitalized, marketing his Trump connections to politicians and governments around the world, including some with unsavory records, according to interviews and documents obtained by The New York Times. Mr. Broidy suggested to clients and prospective customers of his Virginia-based defense contracting company, Circinus, that he could broker meetings with Mr. Trump, his administration and congressional allies.

Mr. Broidy’s ability to leverage his political connections to boost his business illuminates how Mr. Trump’s unorthodox approach to governing has spawned a new breed of access peddling in the swamp he vowed to drain.

Mr. Broidy offered tickets to V.I.P. inauguration events, including a candlelight dinner attended by Mr. Trump, to a Congolese strongman accused of funding a lavish lifestyle with public resources. He helped arrange a meeting with Republican senators and offered a trip to Mar-a-Lago, the president’s private Florida resort, for an Angolan politician. And he arranged an invitation to a party at Mr. Trump’s Washington hotel for a Romanian parliamentarian facing corruption charges, who posted a photograph with the president on Facebook.

This type of access has value on the international stage, where the perception of support from an American president — or even a photo with one — can benefit foreign leaders back home.

Mr. Broidy was open about his business interests, but the administration made no effort to curtail his offers of access to clients or prospective clients.

Yet Mr. Broidy was so aggressive, some associates said, that they warned him to tone down his approach for fear that he might run afoul of the president, clients or American lobbying and anti-corruption laws.

As with so many other political conventions, Mr. Trump has upended the traditional system of access to the president, among the most prized chits in Washington. That is partly because of lax vetting that has allowed largely unfettered access to Mr. Trump and his White House by loyalists, friends and hangers-on with their own policy agendas or business interests.

But it is also because few of Washington’s established lobbyists have close connections to the president. In their place, a new class of insider has emerged, able to lobby the president directly on behalf of clients or business partners, an uncommon opportunity in prior administrations, when lobbyists focused on winning support from lawmakers or regulators.

In a statement, Mr. Broidy said the success of his company reflected his recruitment of “the best people, including a number of former flag officers,” not his political connections. “The idea that our success derives from activities around last year’s presidential inauguration is not only misplaced but insulting to the careers and capabilities of our highly trained and decorated veterans,” he said.

Mr. Broidy, 60, in some ways personifies this new breed of Trump insider. A lifelong Los Angeles resident who worked as an accountant before making a fortune as an investor, Mr. Broidy grew more interested in politics after the Sept. 11 attacks, which shaped his hawkish approach to foreign policy and concern for the defense of Israel. In 2005, he was appointed to a federal homeland security advisory panel.

Mr. Broidy pleaded guilty in 2009 to giving nearly $1 million in illegal gifts to New York state officials to help his company land a $250 million contract with the state’s public pension fund. He paid $18 million in restitution and avoided jail time.

As he worked to rebuild his bank account and reputation, he expanded his business interests in the defense and security industry, starting a company called Threat Deterrence in 2013 and purchasing Circinus in July 2015.

Mr. Broidy initially supported Senator Ted Cruz of Texas for the Republican presidential nomination in 2016, embracing Mr. Trump only after Mr. Cruz dropped out.

His business took off after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus has won lucrative work from around the world, including contracts worth more than $200 million to do defense work for the United Arab Emirates. And Mr. Broidy openly promoted Circinus’s work in meetings with Mr. Trump and other Republican officials, according to documents and interviews.

But Mr. Broidy faces a sudden backlash.

One of his business partners, George Nader,  is cooperating with the special counsel, whose investigators have asked about Mr. Nader’s contacts with top Trump administration officials as well as his possible role in funneling money from the U.A.E. to Mr. Trump’s political efforts, according to people familiar with the inquiry.

Mr. Nader helped Circinus gain access to U.A.E.’s crown prince, while also using Mr. Broidy as a conduit  to shape Trump administration policy toward the Persian Gulf on behalf of the U.A.E. and Saudi Arabia, both American allies. Mr. Broidy, in turn, appears to have helped Mr. Nader get his photograph taken with Mr. Trump at a fund-raiser, over the unspecified objections of the Secret Service. Mr. Nader has been convicted on charges related to child pornography and sexual abuse of minors.

Hundreds of pages of Mr. Broidy’s emails, proposals and contracts were provided to The Times by an anonymous group critical of Mr. Broidy’s advocacy of American foreign policies in the Middle East. Mr. Broidy’s representatives say they have proof that the documents were stolen by hackers working for Qatar in retaliation for his efforts to rally opposition in Washington to Qatar, a regional nemesis of the Saudis and the Emiratis. The Qataris dismiss this charge.

The documents reveal that Mr. Broidy, a vice chairman of the finance committee for Mr. Trump’s inauguration, arranged invitations to parties celebrating the event for foreign leaders with whom Circinus worked to sign contracts that could have been worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Mr. Broidy in some cases presented the invitations in a manner that suggested they were linked to their countries’ willingness to do business with Circinus.

For instance, Mr. Broidy invited Denis Sassou-Nguesso, the longtime president of the Republic of Congo, to a handful of inauguration week events, including the candlelight dinner featuring Mr. Trump, Vice President Mike Pence and their wives. “Your name has been submitted and approved,” Mr. Broidy wrote to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso in a note on Broidy Capital Management letterhead. Mr. Broidy stressed that the invitation was from Mr. Broidy and “is not coming from the Joint Congressional Committee” on Inaugural Ceremonies, which oversees the swearing-in and a luncheon at the Capitol.

The day after the letter was dated, Mr. Broidy asked his team at Circinus to prepare an invoice for $2 million to Mr. Sassou-Nguesso’s office for “military capabilities assessment and review/services,” according to emails and documents.

People close to Mr. Broidy said no invoice was sent and Circinus never worked for the Congolese government. Mr. Sassou-Nguesso declined the invitation to the inauguration festivities, they said.

Donors to previous inaugurations were also able to invite foreign heads of state to events as their guests, a spokesman for Mr. Broidy noted.

Two officials from Romania, another prospective Circinus client, met Mr. Trump at a private party to which Mr. Broidy invited them during inauguration week at the Trump International Hotel near the White House. Liviu Dragnea, a parliamentary leader who runs the Social Democratic Party, called for closer ties between Romania and the United States, prompting Mr. Trump to declare, “We will make it happen! Romania is important for us!” according to Mr. Dragnea’s Facebook post, reported by McClatchy.

At the time, Mr. Dragnea faced corruption charges, which he continues to fight. But for months after the inauguration, Circinus continued pitching his government partly on the access it could provide to Mr. Trump, according to a person who works with the Romanian government and was briefed on the solicitation.

Circinus has yet to receive contracts from Romania, people close to Mr. Broidy said. The company entered into an agreement last month with a Romanian government-owned defense company that appears to give it the inside track for contracts valued at more than $200 million, according to Romanian news media and people familiar with the contracting process.

Similarly, in a letter dated Jan. 3, 2017, and emailed to top Angolan government officials, Mr. Broidy indicated that he was also sending both an invitation to the inauguration festivities and a proposal for Circinus to provide security services for Angola. In one version of the proposal, the company sought nearly $64 million over five years. “With numerous preparations ahead, we request that you kindly return the executed document no later than January 9, 2017,” Mr. Broidy wrote in the letter to João Lourenço, then the Angolan defense minister, and another Angolan official.

Three days before inauguration, the Angolans submitted a $6 million payment to Circinus, which people close to Mr. Broidy say was $2 million less than the Angolans had agreed to pay. That same day, the Angolans and Mr. Broidy met on Capitol Hill with senators including Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ron Johnson of Wisconsin, both Republicans, encounters arranged by Mr. Broidy and his team.

About one month later, Mr. Broidy again wrote to Mr. Lourenço, discussing plans for him “to be joining us at Mira Largo” — an apparent reference to Mar-a-Lago, where Mr. Broidy is a member and has been spotted introducing guests to the president — “this coming weekend.”

“Many preparations have been made in advance of your visit, including additional meetings at the Capitol and the Department of Treasury,” Mr. Broidy wrote.

He went on to remind Mr. Lourenço that Angola was past due on “the balance of the payment” for Circinus’s services. “Please make this payment immediately,” he wrote.

Not long after Mr. Lourenço was inaugurated as president of Angola in September, Mr. Broidy wrote again to congratulate him and offer to help set up meetings with Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence. “Before the formalities which would naturally be in order between our governments, I am able to assess and advise in this matter, and would be delighted to help foster such closer relation between Luanda and Washington,” Mr. Broidy wrote, referring to the Angolan capital.

Mr. Lourenço did not come to Mar-a-Lago and never responded to the letters, according to people close to Mr. Broidy. Circinus never collected any additional funds from Angola beyond the initial $6 million payment, they said.

Mr. Broidy emphasizes to potential clients how his connections to Mr. Trump could benefit them, according to several people who have worked with him or heard his pitches.

“He was mentioning that he has political connections, and it could be helpful,” said Eymen Errais, a counselor to the Tunisian Ministry of Development, Investment and International Cooperation.

Mr. Errais and the department’s minister, Fadhel Abdelkefi, met with Mr. Broidy and Circinus executives in Tunisia a few weeks after Mr. Trump’s election. Circinus sought a contract to build an open-source intelligence center for the Tunisian government, a person familiar with the meeting said, but Mr. Abdelkefi’s ministry instead sought to persuade Mr. Broidy to invest in the Tunisian hospitality industry.

Nonetheless, in an email to Mr. Abdelkefi just after the meeting, Mr. Broidy vowed that the center “would be an extremely useful and effective tool for your government” and again emphasized his connection to Mr. Trump. He characterized the incoming administration as “an unprecedented opportunity, in that the House, Senate and executive branch of our government are all under Republican control for the first time in 10 years.”

Circinus prepared a proposal for a five-year contract totaling $80 million for the Tunisian work. But Mr. Errais said the Tunisians decided not to do business with Circinus. “A connection with Trump — how would that help us for security?” he said.

A person close to Mr. Broidy said he discussed the Republicans’ control of Congress and the White House to suggest that the American government might increase spending on counterterrorism.

Mr. Broidy’s allies say he has never hidden the overlap between his business interests and his political activity. In a memorandum about an October Oval Office meeting, for example, Mr. Broidy wrote that he had volunteered to Mr. Trump that his company was seeking a contract from the United Arab Emirates and had tried to arrange a private meeting for the president to discuss the matter with their leader, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed.

But as scrutiny has mounted around Mr. Broidy, Republican officials signaled that he would be a distraction at a high-dollar fund-raiser with Mr. Trump this month in Los Angeles. Mr. Broidy helped plan it and was listed as a co-host.

After conversations with Ronna McDaniel, the chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, he volunteered not to attend, according to people briefed on the situation.

The dinner and round-table with the president proceeded without him.