In a moving farewell speech before an enormous crowd in Chicago last week, President Obama evoked the American creed of unity and aspiration as the foundation of our democracy. He has always embraced a vision of America as a “melting pot.”

Mr. Obama embodied for many Americans the legacy of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., whom we celebrate on Monday. Our national memory of Dr. King has, for nearly 50 years, reinforced the belief that America, unlike any other nation, could extend opportunity to everyone regardless of his or her identity. In Dr. King’s name, assimilation and aspiration have been the keywords of the post-civil rights era, and diversity and inclusion its currency. And Mr. Obama has symbolized more than anyone in American history the idea that racial representation and the content of one’s character were the perfect antidote to racism.

It’s true that, in fulfilling the duties of the presidency with great dignity, Mr. Obama represents the highest expression of the goal of assimilation. But for African-Americans, he was also the ultimate lesson in how this antidote alone is insufficient to heal the gaping wounds of racial injustice in America. It’s clear that black leadership, in itself, isn’t enough to transform the country. So we must confront the end of an era and the dawn of a new one.

We now live in a post-assimilation America. The 50-year-old rules for racial advancement are obsolete. There is no racial barrier left to break. There is no office in the land to which an African-American can ascend — from mayor to attorney general and the presidency — that will serve as a magical platform for saving black people and our nation’s soul from its racist past. We cannot engineer a more equitable nation simply by dressing up institutions in more shades of brown. Instead, we must confront structural racism and the values of our institutions.

Mr. Obama’s election was by any historical measure the apex of the civil rights period — so many black, white, Latino and Asian-Americans saw him as the fulfillment of Dr. King’s vision. The notion that the blood and courage of civil rights heroes had led to that moment was captured by the iconography of the campaign. Obama supporters from Atlanta to Chicago wore T-shirts illustrated with the profiles of Dr. King and Mr. Obama side by side. Jay-Z expressed the liturgy of the age in verse: “Rosa Parks sat so Martin Luther could walk/Martin Luther walked so Barack Obama could run/Barack Obama ran so all the children could fly.”

But the exceptionalism of Mr. Obama’s biography couldn’t save us from the Tea Party revolution, Republican obstructionism, police brutality, voter suppression and Islamophobia. We now know that no individual, no matter how singular, can bend the moral arc of the universe. Not even Dr. King could.

The Dr. King we choose to remember was indeed the symbolic beacon of the civil rights movement. But the Dr. King we forget worked within institutions to transform broken systems. He never positioned himself as a paragon of progress. Nor did he allow others to become complacent.

In his last book, in 1967, “Where Do We Go From Here: Chaos or Community?” Dr. King warned that the movement was already hobbled by delusion. “The majority of white Americans consider themselves sincerely committed to justice for the Negro,” he wrote. “They believe that American society is essentially hospitable to fair play and to steady growth toward a middle-class utopia embodying racial harmony. But unfortunately this is a fantasy of self-deception and comfortable vanity.”

Dr. King never imagined the election of African-Americans to office in itself as sufficient. Instead, his “unarmed truth” was the need to remake all of American society. He urged us to become “creative dissenters” and hold the country “to a higher destiny.”

So what does creative dissent look like in a post-assimilation America?

We must recognize that institutions are far more powerful than individuals, no matter how many people of color can be counted in leadership. Structural racism is immune to identity politics. That Eric Holder and Loretta Lynch became attorneys general, for example, was the starting point for the possibility of federal criminal justice reform — not the reform itself.

In addition, history matters. Black people in charge of, or embedded in, institutions that have not atoned for their history of racism can make it easier for those institutions to ignore or dismiss present-day claims of racial bias. That’s because the path to leadership has often meant accepting institutions as they are, not disrupting them. Consider what black Harvard Business School alumni told the journalist Ellis Cose: A key to success is “never talk about race (or gender) if you can avoid it, other than to declare that race (or gender) does not matter.”

As the failure of the black political leadership in Baltimore to protect black lives and the limited ability of black police chiefs to curb brutality in their own departments demonstrate, people of color can inherit or perpetuate structures of inequality. Many institutions of government, finance and higher education were built on the backs of enslaved African-Americans and remain haunted by that history. Diversity and inclusion policies, therefore, should grow out of truth and reconciliation practices as well as strategic hiring plans. Intentional transformation, even reparations, one government agency, one company, one college at a time moves us past the denial and the empty promises and will take us closer to where Dr. King wanted America to go.

Georgetown University’s  decision to make reparations for its past is a powerful expression of creative dissent. Last year, after its president met with descendants of the enslaved African-Americans owned by the university he declared, “We cannot do our best work if we refuse to take ownership of such a critical part of our history.” Georgetown will provide preferential admissions to descendants, akin to legacy status for the children of alumni.

Other colleges should take heed. The measure of institutional change will not simply be a new diversity task force or more faculty members of color. We should judge transformation by how our institutions behave on behalf of individuals rather than the other way around.

Some Black Lives Matter activists have already embraced the possibilities of the new era. “We don’t need more elected officials that are just black,” Charlene Carruthers, national director of the Black Youth Project 100 in Chicago, said to a reporter. “We need champions in the city.”

Mr. Obama himself seems ready to move on from the era of assimilation. In his farewell speech, there was no more self-congratulatory praise for a country that gave him a chance to be president. Instead, he acknowledged, for the first time, the very real threat of racism to our democracy and the contingent nature of racial progress.

In a revision to the American creed, he added, equality may be self-evident but it has “never been self-executing.” And he listed specific areas where systemic racism needed to be uprooted, which he hadn’t done in his State of the Union addresses or inaugural speeches: “If we’re going to be serious about race going forward, we need to uphold laws against discrimination — in hiring, and in housing, and in education and in the criminal justice system.” As it turns out, there is no straight line of progress from Seneca Falls to Selma to Stonewall.

In post-assimilation America, people of color must continue to pursue leadership roles as the demographics of the nation inexorably change. But they must also reject their personal achievement as the core measure of progress and instead use history as a tool to measure systemic change. To proceed otherwise is to perpetuate the “fantasy of self-deception” that Dr. King rejected.

The future is no longer about “firsts.” It is instead about the content of the character of the institutions our new leaders will help us rebuild.

With Donald J. Trump about to take control of the White House, it would seem a dark time for the renewable energy industry. After all, Mr. Trump has mocked the science of global warming as a Chinese hoax, threatened to kill a global deal on climate change and promised to restore the coal industry to its former glory.

So consider what happened in the middle of December, after investors had had a month to absorb the implications of Mr. Trump’s victory. The federal government opened bidding on a tract of the ocean floor off New York State as a potential site for a huge wind farm.

Up, up and away soared the offers — interest from the bidders was so fevered that the auction went through 33 rounds and spilled over to a second day. In the end, the winning bidder offered the federal Treasury $42 million, more than twice what the government got in August for oil leases — oil leases — in the Gulf of Mexico.

Who won the bid? None other than Statoil, the Norwegian oil company, which is in the midst of a major campaign to turn itself into a big player in renewable energy.

We do not know for sure that the New York wind farm will get built, but we do know this: The energy transition is real, and Mr. Trump is not going to stop it.

On a global scale, more than half the investment in new electricity generation is going into renewable energy. That is more than $300 billion a year, a sign of how powerful the momentum has become.

Wind power is booming in the United States, with the industry adding manufacturing jobs in the reddest states. When Mr. Trump’s appointees examine the facts, they will learn that wind-farm technician is projected to be the fastest-growing occupation in America over the next decade.

The election of Mr. Trump left climate activists and environmental groups in despair. They had pinned their hopes on a Hillary Clinton victory and a continuation of President Obama’s strong push to tackle global warming.

Now, of course, everything is in flux. In the worst case, with a sufficiently pliant Congress, Mr. Trump could roll back a decade of progress on climate change. Barring some miraculous conversion on Mr. Trump’s part, his election cannot be interpreted as anything but bad news for the climate agenda.

Yet despair might be an overreaction.

For starters, when Mr. Trump gets to the White House, he will find that the federal government actually has relatively little control over American energy policy, and particularly over electricity generation. The coal industry has been ravaged in part by cheap natural gas, which is abundant because of technological changes in the way it is produced, and there is no lever in the Oval Office that Mr. Trump can pull to reverse that.

The intrinsically weak federal role was a source of frustration for Mr. Obama and his aides, but now it will work to the benefit of environmental advocates. They have already persuaded more than half the states to adopt mandates on renewable energy. Efforts to roll those back have largely failed, with the latest development coming only last week, when Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican, vetoed a rollback bill.

The federal government does offer important subsidies for renewable energy, and they will surely become a target in the new Congress. But those subsidies are already scheduled to fall drastically over five years, in a deal cut a year ago that gave the oil industry some favors and that passed Congress with many Republican votes.

If Mr. Trump pushes for an early end to the subsidies, he will find that renewable energy has friends in the Republican Party. Topping that list is Charles E. Grassley, the senior senator from Iowa. That state — all-important in presidential politics, let us remember — will soon be getting 40 percent of its electricity from wind power.

“Senator Grassley has been and continues to be an extraordinary leader and champion for the wind industry,” said Tom Kiernan, the head of the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group.

When I spoke with him last week, Mr. Kiernan did not sound like a man gnashing his teeth about the impending Trump era. By his group’s calculations, $80 billion of wind industry investment is in the pipeline for the United States over the next few years. “We are creating jobs throughout America, good-paying jobs, and we think President-elect Trump will want that to continue,” he said.

If Mr. Trump really wanted to roll back the clock, he could try to get Congress to override all the state mandates, a gross violation of the supposed conservative commitment to federalism. But it would be a titanic fight, some Republican senators would defect on principle, and Mr. Trump would almost certainly lose.

So if the damage Mr. Trump can do domestically is limited by circumstance, what about the international effort against global warming?

That is the prospect that has David G. Victor most worried. Dr. Victor, a professor at the University of California at San Diego, is one of the closest observers of global climate politics. While the nations of the world agreed a year ago to a landmark deal to tackle global warming, that consensus is fragile, he pointed out.

The Paris Agreement is really an outline; more promise than reality. Mr. Trump has vowed to withdraw. Right now, other countries are saying they will go forward even if he does so, but it is not hard to imagine the thing unraveling.

As part of the negotiations, the Obama administration promised billions of dollars from American taxpayers to help poor countries adjust to the devastation of global warming. “That’s a big part of the glue that held the Paris deal together,” Dr. Victor pointed out. Mr. Trump is considered likely to abandon that pledge.

Perhaps the biggest threat to the climate agenda posed by the incoming administration is not anything that Mr. Trump might do, but rather what he will not do.

While the energy transition is real, it is still in its earliest stages. Iowa may soon get 40 percent of its power from wind, but for the United States as a whole, the figure is closer to 5 percent. The transition is simply not happening fast enough. The pledges countries made in Paris, even if kept, are not ambitious enough.

To meet the climate goals embodied in the Paris Agreement, the world needed an American president who would have pushed hard to accelerate the energy transition. You can debate whether Mrs. Clinton would have been that president, but it is certainly clear that Mr. Trump will not be.

So as Washington goes into reverse gear on climate policy, seas will keep rising and heat waves will get worse. Later this month, global monitoring agencies are expected to report that 2016 was the hottest year in the historical record, beating out 2015, which beat out 2014.

If nothing else, the next four years may be a fascinating test of just how far politics can become divorced from physical reality.

 Welcome to an experiment in journalism and community — a newsletter that will help shape The New York Times’ expansion in Australia. Follow along by signing up to receive it by email, and tell us what you think at nytaustralia@nytimes.com.

“This is the easiest place to live in the world,” said the dark-haired woman with a nose ring and London accent who was cutting my hair the day I arrived in Sydney two weeks ago. Compared with Morocco, England and a few other places she used to call home, Australia was clearly the most relaxed, she said, and perhaps the hardest to engage.

“It’s so nice here. It’s hard to get people to think about all the terrible things in the world,” she said. Then she laughed: “Or maybe it’s just my friends; maybe you’ll find a different crowd.”

To some degree, we hope to actually bring those crowds together — to get the disengaged and the engaged talking to us, and one another. We’re early on in the process of opening a new bureau in Sydney — I’m the bureau chief — and expanding our coverage of a place that is sometimes called The Lucky Country: for many, because of its blinding beauty and resource-rich fortunes; for others, including the writer who coined the phrase, because of its ongoing effort to define itself beyond the accident of its location and youth as a nation.

Our own goals are relatively universal: We want to do irresistible in-depth journalism. We want to connect with audiences, working with sources, readers and creators to build a body of work that explores, investigates and highlights what matters in Australia, to Australians and to the world. And we want to connect readers in Australia to the best work of Times journalists around the globe.

As part of that, we have some ambitious plans that we’ll tell you about as they come together. But we also don’t want to assume we have it all figured out. There’s a process that goes into covering a new country as a foreign correspondent; in my 12 years at The Times, I’ve done it in Mexico, Haiti and Cuba as well as in Iraq and Lebanon, and a big part of it involves listening. It’s reading books, it’s watching movies, it’s interviewing everyone from bartenders, hairstylists and taxi or Uber drivers (who seem to be remarkably well informed about American politics, by the way) to novelists, artists and political figures of varying views.

Usually that all happens offscreen. This time, we want to bring you, the audience, in. I’d love your suggestions for what I should be reading. I’m currently halfway into “Cloudstreet” by Tim Winton, which is fantastic, but what should I add to my list? Who should I meet? What themes should The Times make sure it doesn’t overlook?

Initially, this newsletter, which we’ve been testing a few different ways, will be a platform for that exploration. It will often be me or one of my colleagues writing about what we’re noticing, and asking questions. We’ll also show you a few stories we’ve done or liked, and find ways to toss in a little fun.

That’s just a start. We’re hiring and looking for pitches for projects so there will be more to read and see once we really get going.

But enough throat-clearing. Even as we grow, we’ll be committing regular acts of journalism. Jacqueline Williams, an investigative journalist originally from Canberra, is here now, joining me from New York, and Michelle Innis, a born-and-raised Sydney-sider, continues to provide a steady stream of news and features about Australia — not to mention all the other things The Times has to offer about Washington and the world.

Here are a few stories, not all having to do with The Lucky Country, that I found striking in recent weeks, followed by a perhaps surprising recommendation.

_____

Trump Flees Pacific Trade Deal

The Obama administration worked for years to bring the Trans-Pacific Partnership to life, or close to it. Donald Trump erased that with the sweep of a pen. Long-serving American officials in the region are none too pleased and predict China will fill the void; critics of multilateral trade deals say it’s about time someone stiffens policy on behalf of American workers. But this is really just the start of a foreign policy shake-up in Washington that will ripple through the entire world, including Australia. Here’s a smart look at how China may be interpreting what’s going on.

_____

The American Footprint

The headline on this global graphic from The Interpreter, a column by Max Fisher and Amanda Taub that uses context and history to explain world events (sign up here for their newsletter), focuses on what the United States gets for defending its allies around the world. It could just as easily emphasize what the world receives from the U.S. Either way, what you’re left with is a portrait of interlocking alliances and exchanges that have managed to keep much of the world in relative peace and economic harmony — well, at least for the elites.

_____

I Love You, but You’re Wrong

I’m one of many Americans who come from a politically divided working-class family. At times it feels as if Donald Trump has dropped a surprise onto our kitchen table: It could be a grenade; it could be gold bullion. We don’t yet know. But to understand some of the awkward conversations happening in clans like ours (and maybe yours?), watch this video.

_____

Marching Around the World

One of our goals here is to connect Australia to the world by being more inclusive of Australia in our coverage and (if possible) creating journalism that helps put Australia in perspective. This photo-driven interactive features protests in Sydney and Melbourne. It’s also visually arresting, easy to understand and global in scope — appropriate to the size and scale of the protests.

_____

Melbourne as Canvas

As you may have noticed, our itinerant Frugal Traveler, Lucas Peterson, has been bouncing around Australia recently. This piece really grabbed me — as a look at street art and its many forms in Melbourne. I’ve often found that artists can tell you more about a country than politicians, and I also appreciated Lucas’s approach: “Find complete strangers that appear to be local residents and ask what they enjoy about the city.” That pretty much sums up what I plan to do as I get started in Sydney, and all over this vast country: Ask what people love, and also what they want investigated and explored. Tell me on Twitter (@damiencave) or by email (nytaustralia@nytimes.com).

_____

Finally, here’s some topical and meaningful fun.

This week, in the world of politics and media, there’s been a lot of discussion about facts, alternative facts, and lies, and it’s been framed in stark black and white terms: truth, it would seem, is obvious.

But when should we trust the facts we think we know?

For some things — crowd sizes for one — what we see is what we get. But with our memories, facts are eels, slippery and fast, which led me back to what I still think of as the most creative bit of fact-bending storytelling that I’ve seen in five, maybe 10 years: “Stories We Tell.” It’s Sarah Polley investigating her own family, and her documentary’s themes of betrayal and curiosity are as universal as her filmmaking is unpredictable and surprising.

No, it’s not an escape (for that, there’s Cooking); it’s a dive into the mysterious foggy abyss of facts and alternatives. And it’s worth it.

WASHINGTON — President Obama on Tuesday set forth an ambitious vision for America’s future but conceded his own failure to heal the political divisions holding back progress, calling it a lasting disappointment of his tenure.

In a prime-time televised speech that avoided the usual litany of policy prescriptions, Mr. Obama used his final State of the Union address to paint a hopeful portrait of the nation after seven years of his leadership, with a resurgent economy and better standing in the world despite inequality at home and terrorism abroad.

But Mr. Obama, who campaigned for president on promises of hope and change, and vowed when he took office to transform Washington and politics itself, accepted responsibility for falling far short of that goal.

“It’s one of the few regrets of my presidency, that the rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better,” Mr. Obama said, adding that “a president with the gifts of Lincoln or Roosevelt might have better bridged the divide.”

He acknowledged that many Americans feel frightened and shut out of a political and economic system they view as rigged against their interests, even as he offered an implicit rebuke of Republicans who are playing on those insecurities in the race to succeed him.

“As frustration grows, there will be voices urging us to fall back into tribes, to scapegoat fellow citizens who don’t look like us, or pray like us, or vote like we do, or share the same background,” Mr. Obama said. “We can’t afford to go down that path.”

He repeatedly sought to contrast Republicans’ bleak appraisals of the state of the nation with his own upbeat assessment. He called his opponents’ version “a fiction” and defended his decisions, many of them flash points for the partisan divide. Mr. Obama implicitly singled out Donald J. Trump, the leading Republican presidential candidate, for pointed criticism, saying that Americans must resist calls to stigmatize all Muslims at a time of threats from the Islamic State.

“Will we respond to the changes of our time with fear, turning inward as a nation, and turning against each other as a people?” Mr. Obama said. “Or will we face the future with confidence in who we are, what we stand for, and the incredible things we can do together?”

He also made an indirect but derisive reference to Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, another Republican presidential contender who has criticized Mr. Obama’s foreign policy and urged him to “carpet bomb” the Islamic State.

“The world will look to us to help solve these problems,” Mr. Obama said of global challenges, “and our answer needs to be more than tough talk or calls to carpet bomb civilians.”

The speech, a mix of Mr. Obama’s often lofty rhetoric and punchy, colloquial language, drew more scattered applause than in earlier years. The president appeared liberated by his decision not to present the usual menu of legislative proposals, although it lasted an hour and four minutes, longer than some past addresses. Mr. Obama spoke informally at times, and with occasional flashes of humor.

“Now I’m guessing we won’t agree on health care anytime soon,” he said at one point, as the sound of a single person clapping on the Republican side could be heard in the chamber. Mr. Obama smiled. “A little applause back there,” he said wryly.

Mr. Obama opted for symbolism to make some of his points, leaving a chair empty in the first lady’s guest box to symbolize the victims of gun violence. The other seats were filled by an array of guests including a Syrian refugee. Among the guests invited by Republican lawmakers was Kim Davis, the Kentucky court clerk who became a folk hero to social conservatives for refusing to sign marriage certificates for same-sex couples.

In his remarks, Mr. Obama said America should harness innovation and not be intimidated by it. He called for a “moonshot” effort to cure cancer, to be led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden, Jr., who lost his son to the disease last year.

The address before a joint session of Congress departed from Mr. Obama’s past practice of outlining executive actions intended to sidestep gridlock in Washington.

Instead, Mr. Obama sought to pose and answer the four central questions his aides said were driving the debate about America’s future, including how to ensure opportunity for everyone, how to harness technological change, how to keep the country safe, and how to fix the nation’s broken politics.

He called for an end to gerrymandering — the gaming of political districts to ensure one party’s advantage — reducing the influence of secretive campaign contributions and making voting easier. Mr. Obama also called on Americans to get more involved in politics and participate, a theme of his first campaign and of his presidency.

The speech was one of Mr. Obama’s few remaining opportunities to shape the public conversation before the nation’s attention shifts to the campaign to replace him that is already underway. Except for a final address at the Democratic convention this summer, Tuesday night might have been Mr. Obama’s last big speech.

“I know some of you are antsy to get back to Iowa — I’ve been there,” he said at the start, acknowledging that the political focus is on the state, which holds the country’s first nominating caucuses.

Mr. Obama was determined that the address be forward-looking, aides said, even as his time remaining in the White House is limited. The president called for compromise with Republicans on an overhaul of the criminal justice system, approval of a broad free-trade agreement spanning the Pacific Rim and new initiatives to address poverty and the opioid crisis in the United States. He proposed to provide jobless workers with retraining in addition to the unemployment payments they already received.

In an effort to find common ground with Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, Mr. Obama noted that Mr. Ryan, a Republican, supports expanding a federal tax credit for low- and middle-income workers. “Who knows, we might surprise the cynics again,” he said, noting a bipartisan budget agreement they struck late last year.

And he repeated past calls for legislative action on his domestic initiatives that have fallen short, including raising the minimum wage, revising the nation’s immigration laws and enacting stricter gun restrictions.

He used the speech to trace the arc of his presidency and its major themes: the economic collapse and recovery, the passage of the Affordable Care Act, the push for free trade and climate pacts, and his failed bids for an immigration overhaul and new gun laws.

Mr. Obama also argued that the country’s most acute challenges emanate not from the strength of adversaries — a primary criticism of Republicans who portray the president as feckless in the face of mounting threats — but from their weakness.

He defended his approach to taking on the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, describing it as a dangerous threat to the United States that must be dealt with, but not an existential one, and not a force that warrants a commitment of American ground forces in Iraq and Syria.

The president also said the United States is uniquely positioned to rally other countries to solve global problems, highlighting his work in forging a nuclear deal with Iran, opening a new era of relations with Cuba, pressing for a global accord reached in Paris to combat climate change and efforts to stop the spread of Ebola.

Republicans, too, used the occasion to contrast their agenda and their values with those of the sitting president, and to offer their own, far more negative assessment of his tenure.

“The president’s record has often fallen far short of his soaring words,” Gov. Nikki R. Haley of South Carolina said in her official response, delivered immediately after Mr. Obama’s. “As he enters his final year in office, many Americans are still feeling the squeeze of an economy too weak to raise income levels.”

“Even worse,” she added, “we are facing the most dangerous terrorist threat our nation has seen since September 11th, and this president appears either unwilling or unable to deal with it.”

“If we held the White House,” Ms. Haley said, taxes would be lower, spending slowed and the military strengthened.

“We would make international agreements that were celebrated in Israel and protested in Iran, not the other way around,” she said, referring to the international agreement Mr. Obama pressed for that lifts sanctions on Iran in exchange for restrictions to its nuclear ability.

WASHINGTON — As he prepared last week to deliver his farewell address, President Obama convened three Democratic leaders in the White House for a strategy session on the future of their party. The quiet huddle included Senator Chuck Schumer of New York and Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the top Democrats in Congress, and Gov. Terry McAuliffe of Virginia.

One topic of urgent concern, according to people briefed on the meeting: how to break the Republican Party’s iron grip on the congressional map.

Thwarted for much of his term by a confrontational Republican Congress, and criticized by his fellow Democrats for not devoting sufficient attention to their down-ballot candidates, Mr. Obama has decided to make the byzantine process of legislative redistricting a central political priority in his first years after the presidency.

Emerging as Mr. Obama’s chief collaborator and proxy is Eric H. Holder Jr., the former attorney general of the United States and a personal friend of the president. He has signed on to lead the National Democratic Redistricting Committee, a newly formed political group aimed at untangling the creatively drawn districts that have helped cement the Republican Party in power in Washington and many state capitals.

In an interview this week at Covington & Burling, the Washington law firm where he is now in private practice, Mr. Holder, 65, said that he and Mr. Obama believe Republicans have undermined the political system by creating a patchwork of legislative maps — at both the state and federal levels — that are designed to stifle the will of voters.

Echoing a number of Mr. Obama’s top advisers, Mr. Holder described fighting Republican gerrymandering as a “primary concern” for the president once he leaves the White House.

“He thinks, and I think, that this is something that threatens our democracy,” Mr. Holder said. “We have a system now where the politicians are picking their voters, as opposed to voters making selections about who they want to represent them.”

Mr. Holder is set to kick off his initiative on Thursday with a speech at the Center for American Progress, a liberal think tank in Washington. The first major fund-raising event for the group is to take place in Chicago this spring; David Jacobson, a former ambassador to Canada and an Obama campaign fund-raiser, is hosting the event.

Mr. Holder said he anticipated that Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. would also be involved, along with other “present and former cabinet members.”

For Mr. Obama, the redistricting campaign signals how personally engaged in electoral politics he intends to be after leaving office, unlike many former presidents who enjoy something of a cooling-off period. Mr. Obama has also appeared to concede in recent weeks that he spent a limited amount of time tending to the Democratic Party as an institution during his time in office, and in a television interview explained almost apologetically that the presidency is a time-consuming job.

But redistricting may be a special preoccupation among Mr. Obama and his allies: For them, Mr. Holder said, there is considerable resentment of how an entrenched House Republican majority undermined the president’s goals over three-quarters of his tenure.

“The tasks that he had placed before him were made a lot more difficult, progress a lot more difficult, than it needed to be,” Mr. Holder said of Mr. Obama. “That’s because of the Congress that he had to deal with, which was a function of the 2010 redistricting effort.”

While Mr. Holder said he committed to lead the new Democratic group well before Election Day — and spoke with Hillary Clinton about redistricting during the presidential race — he said Donald J. Trump’s victory had intensified interest among activists and donors.

The Holder- and Obama-led campaign comes amid a broader resurgence in Democratic interest in state and local elections, at a moment when Republicans control every lever of government in Washington. Candidates seeking to lead the Democratic National Committee have called for a more intensive focus on nonfederal elections, and several senior Democrats said distraught party donors were turning their attention to the states. The Democratic Governors Association and the Democratic Legislative Campaign Committee, two groups teaming up with Mr. Holder, are already recruiting candidates for upcoming off-year elections.

Mr. McAuliffe, who declined to discuss the White House meeting, said he had been in touch with Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer since the elections to refocus the party’s attention on races in the states. He said he and Ms. Pelosi had commiserated about the grim state of the congressional map.

“I said: ‘Nancy, it doesn’t matter how much money you have if we don’t have lines where Democrats can run competitively and win,’” Mr. McAuliffe said.

But Democrats have long suffered from a consuming obsession with the presidency at the expense of other elections, said Mr. McAuliffe, a former national party chairman.

“We’ve got to be smarter about how we’re building the future of this party. We have been decimated at the state level, and it’s at the state level that they draw the maps,” he said, adding: “We raise all this money in the presidential, and then everybody goes away.”

The next round of congressional redistricting is still years away, after the next decennial census in 2020. But the officials drawing the maps in most states will be chosen in elections well before then, starting with the election for governor in Virginia this year.

Democrats ruefully acknowledge now that before the 2010 census, riding high after Mr. Obama’s 2008 victory and seemingly secure in their hold on Congress, they were far less prepared than Republicans in gearing up for legislative reapportionment. The Republican Party mounted a ferocious state-by-state campaign that gave it overwhelming control of redistricting, allowing it to lock in many victories in the 2010 midterm elections.

In the run-up to 2020, Democrats say, their goal in many places will be not to seize control of redistricting, but merely to capture one or two key offices to keep Republicans from locking them out of the process. Right now, there are 25 states in which Republicans control the whole government — the governorship and the legislature — versus just six wholly controlled by Democrats.

Mr. Holder said his initiative would unfold on three fronts: In court, where Democrats will challenge Republican-drawn maps they see as violating the law; on the campaign trail, where they will seek to win offices that influence redistricting; and through ballot referendums in states that allow voters to give direct approval to laws mandating new procedures for legislative apportionment.

Mr. Holder said he was also prepared to take an unaccustomed leap into electoral politics, campaigning for candidates around the country who can affect the redistricting process. A career prosecutor, Mr. Holder has quickly emerged as a leading figure in Democratic efforts to fight Mr. Trump; he has been retained by the Democratic-led California Legislature to help in any battles with the Trump administration.

The success of the new effort will depend in part on whether the newfound appetite among Democrats for confronting gerrymandering can be sustained as more attention turns to what will be a wide-open presidential primary, the sort of glamorous campaign that often attracts the most attention from liberal donors at the expense of less-sexy party building efforts. Republican donors have typically been more attentive to state elections; they are expected to pour money into defending the party’s hold on power outside of Washington.

Party strategists hope that having as high-profile a figure as Mr. Holder, and eventually Mr. Obama himself, will make it easier for them to solicit six- and seven- figure checks.

Mr. Holder said he and Mr. Obama believed strongly that Democrats needed to look beyond Washington. “I can remember conversations with him where it was his view that it wouldn’t take huge amounts of money to have an impact on state and local races,” Mr. Holder said, “but that it would take a substantial amount of effort.”

Leading the legal offensive will be Marc Elias, the prominent Democratic election lawyer who has already won challenges to Republican-drawn maps in several states, including Florida and Virginia.

Before 2010, Mr. Elias said Democrats had prepared for a conventional negotiation over drawing lines, in legislatures and in court, but had not matched the Republican Party’s yearslong strategy for dominating state-level elections, fueled by heavily funded outside groups.

Mr. Obama, Mr. Elias said, would help “direct the best and the brightest in the party to see this as really important.”

For the moment, at least, Democrats are portraying their campaign as a matter of fairness, criticizing Republicans for having mangled the maps in places like Ohio and Michigan, so that solidly purple states are represented disproportionately by Republicans.

Democrats believe that where states have drawn maps by nonpartisan means, or by court order, it has tended to benefit them. Republicans have tended to roll their eyes at Democratic complaints about redistricting, given how aggressively some in Mr. Obama’s party drew maps in their favor when Democrats had more state-level power.

Mr. Holder said he viewed Republican gerrymandering as more extreme than anything Democrats had engineered for their own benefit in blue states. But he declined to say that Democrats should eschew gerrymandering of their own.

Yet in a sign of tensions that might later emerge, Mr. Holder suggested that some Democratic incumbents might have to be willing to run in more competitive districts, to avoid clustering core Democratic constituencies in a tiny number of districts. Some senior black lawmakers have resisted efforts to overhaul the map in ways that would make their districts even modestly whiter and more competitive.

Democrats see Mr. Obama and Mr. Holder as potentially persuasive messengers in easing such resistance. And Mr. Holder said bluntly that black lawmakers could also win seats that are not necessarily majority-minority.

Incumbents of both parties, he said, should “get more comfortable with the notion that with fairly drawn districts, elections might be more significantly contested.”

He added: “That’s a good thing for our democracy.”

Since outsider, anti-establishment White House candidates are all the rage, consider this one: scant executive experience, brief time in federal office, a bold if not arrogant willingness to challenge much more seasoned politicians, an aspirational platform with little track record to back it up, and a minority to boot.

Ted Cruz? Hardly. This outsider candidate is already in the White House: Barack Obama, a two-term president who changed the way Americans and candidates think about the qualifications and experience necessary to be president.

As a junior senator back in 2006, Mr. Obama was urged by allies to run for president precisely because he had spent such a short time in Washington that he had not built up the legislative record or earned the insider image that could weigh him down like, say, Hillary Clinton.

“It was almost a liability to have any experience or ties to Washington,” said Tom Daschle, the former Democratic Senate leader from South Dakota, who was among those encouraging Mr. Obama to run before it was too late.

It is hard to imagine Mr. Cruz and his fellow Republican senators Marco Rubio and Rand Paul running as credible contenders had it not been for Mr. Obama’s success. All are in their first term, and Mr. Cruz, like Mr. Obama, announced his candidacy for the White House after less than three years in the Senate. None of the three Republicans has led a committee, and all have spent most of their time in the Senate in the minority party.

As for his own party, Mr. Obama also no doubt cleared the way for Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, a democratic socialist mounting a progressive bid to shake up the status quo in the nation’s capital and relying strongly on his appeal to young voters with little interest in embracing what they see as the moth-eaten Washington ways.

Before Mr. Obama’s victory, the ticket to a major party presidential nomination since John F. Kennedy had been a well-seasoned national pedigree or a stint in a governor’s mansion. Consider Lyndon B. Johnson, Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, both George Bushes and Bill Clinton. Mr. Obama, then, is the clear outlier in that list in terms of legislative or executive experience.

The losers in some of those contests were even more notable for their Washington résumés: Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, a former senator; Senator George McGovern; Walter Mondale, a former vice president and senator; Bob Dole, a former Senate majority leader: Vice President Al Gore, a former senator; Senators John Kerry and John McCain. Both parties clearly have seen Washington gravitas as essential.

Mr. Obama’s candidacy also heightened another element in presidential politics that is glaringly obvious in today’s campaign — celebrity. While he was a freshman member of the Senate with limited influence inside the institution, he was the most sought-after candidate on the campaign trail, drawing huge crowds eager for a fresh face.

It goes without saying that the current celebrity candidate is Donald J. Trump, a reality television star who has never cast a vote in a legislative body, providing him with the ultimate protection against anyone trying to pin him down on his positions. Mr. Trump is building on the Obama model in some ways but coming at it from an entirely different direction, one fueled more by anger than hope.

Mr. Obama was a fund-raising machine, attracting hundreds of millions of dollars outside the party apparatus, keeping him free of conventional party allegiances and obligations. Once in office, he held on to his outsider status to a large degree, keeping his distance from Congress and not engaging in the sort of Washington backslapping that in the past was seen as important in getting initiatives through the House and Senate.

Lawmakers saw him as aloof, an impression the White House staff would occasionally try to shake by putting lawmakers on Air Force One or having them play a round of golf with him.

With less than a year left in the president’s tenure, some in the White House now wonder if it would have been better to embrace his outsider demeanor entirely, to let Obama be Obama from the start and drop any pretense of buttering up those on Capitol Hill or playing the Washington game.

Some of those who were with him at the time say it would have been a risky approach. The times were too unsettling with the economic crisis and two wars to wind down, and Mr. Obama was already seen as such a different political creature that going full outsider could have shaken the public.

“It is easy to say now that we should have owned this from the beginning,” said David Axelrod, the president’s former chief political adviser. “But at the time, given the fragility of the economy and the country, you already felt you were walking on eggshells. People were looking for stability.”

Recently, though, the president has shown more inclination to tell people what he really thinks. His State of the Union address was a long list of where he thinks Republicans — and some Democrats — are wrong about issues from immigration to the economy to the way democracy works. His declaration that the Islamic State does “not threaten our national existence” even as Republicans were making inroads with worried voters on national security was another example of the president’s willingness to break with convention.

“I think what you have seen in the last two years is him being freed of the burden of running for his own election or anyone else’s,” Mr. Axelrod said.

With voting actually beginning in the presidential primaries to replace him, the results will ultimately show whether this outsider president paved the way for another or whether wary voters still value experience.