Twitter announced on Tuesday the year’s biggest trending topics and most widely shared tweets in news and politics, and while the election loomed large, several of the most popular discussions were focused on matters of identity and safety.

Race relations were at the top of people’s minds, with #BlackLivesMatter the third-most popular subject. Alton Sterling, a black man fatally shot by the police in Baton Rouge, La., was also in the top 10.

#InternationalWomensDay gathered discussion about gender in March, while #LoveIsLove — a declaration associated with equal rights for gay people that Barack Obama used as Americans held pride parades — was popular in June.

Twitter users publicly mourned mass-casualty attacks with #PrayForOrlando and #PrayForNice, while discussion of Brexit, a coup attempt in Turkey and the Panama Papers also made the top 10.

But #Election2016 was the leading discussion of the year and the subject of most of the most widely shared political tweets of the year.

The most popular political tweet was a quote from Hillary Clinton’s concession speech on Nov. 9.

Ms. Clinton’s tweet was the third-most popular tweet of the year in any subject, falling behind one by a Spanish video gamer and one from Harry Styles quoting Taylor Swift. And you thought the American election was the most interesting thing that happened this year.

The second-biggest political tweet might require some explanation. During the campaign, Donald J. Trump posted a criticism of President Obama’s endorsement of Mrs. Clinton. In response, she (or, more likely, her staff) latched on to a common Twitter retort. If you’re still confused, we explained the meme more fully here.

Other tweets on the list were more straightforward, such as Mr. Trump’s Election Day declaration, a kind word from a vice president to his pal and an actor responding in despair to the election results.

This one came from an everyday user who struck a nerve with a Google search for the name of the current president.

Although Mr. Obama sent the tweet below four years ago to celebrate his re-election, it got more than 236,000 retweets in 2016, Twitter said. That was slightly more retweets than Mr. Trump got this year on an early-morning tweet after winning the election.

Last on the list was a tweet that found resonance among Mr. Trump’s opponents.

• President Trump delivered his first State of the Union address, followed by Representative Joseph Kennedy III’s response for the Democrats. Our reporters offered instant analysis, fact checked the speech and annotated the transcript.

• The centerpiece of the State of the Union address was what Mr. Trump called a “down the middle” compromise on immigration, but Democrats booed some of his proposals.

• The president called for bipartisan unity, citing infrastructure, but he gave no details and offered no road map for how to enact such an ambitious plan.

• Also notable was what he left out. He made no mention of the Russia investigation that has dogged his presidency, nor did he acknowledge the #MeToo moment, even as female lawmakers wore black to mark the cultural moment.

• Mr. Kennedy’s use of Spanish in the middle of his speech signaled a different attitude toward immigrants than Mr. Trump’s.

The president promised an optimistic, bipartisan speech, and he largely avoided some of the negative imagery of past speeches. Gone was the “American carnage.”

But aside from a few offerings to the Democrats, mainly he appealed to enthusiastic Republicans. He did propose paid family leave and backed vocational schools and job training, winning grudging applause from Democrats.

But his policy proposals were conservative: Keep open the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, burn coal, and above all, take on an immigration system that favors family reunification over skills-based migration.

At one hour and 20 minutes, it was also the third longest State of the Union speech in the last 50 years.

An annotated copy of Mr. Trump’s speech can be read here ».

When he took office, President Trump painted a bleak picture of a country ravaged by economic turmoil, a landscape of “American carnage,” as he so memorably put it. A year later, he presented the nation on Tuesday night with a different narrative, one of a booming economy and a “new American moment.”

The stock market has “smashed one record after another.” Retirement accounts have “gone through the roof.” Companies are “roaring back” to the United States. “We haven’t seen this in a long time,” he exulted from the rostrum of the House chamber as he delivered his first formal State of the Union address. “It’s all coming back.”

Never mind that in some fundamental ways the economy is growing no faster than it did at points during President Barack Obama’s second term. Mr. Trump is at heart a salesman, and he rarely lets details get in the way of a good story. And by some measures, he has managed to convince many Americans, especially corporate leaders, that the economy really is surging in a way it has not for years.

The challenge for Mr. Trump is that even as he sells the economy with the fervor of a real estate developer, he has not been able to sell himself. His approval ratings remain at historic depths, and effectively unchanged after a year in office. His success at passing tax cuts and the continued progress of the economy he inherited have not changed the dismal views that a sizable majority of Americans hold of their president.

Read more of Peter Baker’s analysis here »

Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III, the grandson of Robert F. Kennedy, emerged on the national stage to give the Democratic response — from “a proud American city, built by immigrants.”

Here are some excerpts:

And here’s a full transcript »

He wasn’t chosen as the official Democratic responder. But Senator Bernie Sanders, independent of Vermont, spoke to his faithful with his own response to the State of the Union address.

President Trump called for an infrastructure that would leverage federal dollars, state and local government contributions and private sector funds to total $1.5 trillion.

But Democrats, who have pressed for infrastructure spending since Barack Obama was president, were not satisfied.

“President Trump is saying he has a $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan. He actually has an infrastructure plan with only $200 billion in federal funding over 10 years. He expects states, localities, and the private sector to come up with $1.3 trillion on their own,” said the office of Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader.

Tonight’s speech became the most Tweeted #SOTU or #Joint session address ever, passing last year’s record of 3 million Tweets, according to Twitter.

In his State of the Union address, Mr. Trump returned to a phrase he has used many times before: “beautiful, clean coal.”

But it has never been entirely clear what he means by it.

Our colleague Brad Plumer wrote in August that the term “clean coal” typically refers to “coal plants that capture the carbon dioxide emitted from smokestacks and bury it underground as a way of limiting global warming.” Only one coal plant in the country uses that technology, which is very expensive. And even with it, coal plants still produce far more carbon dioxide and other pollutants than renewable energy sources.

— Maggie Astor

Democrats were generally stone-faced for the president’s address. But when Mr. Trump denounced “chain migration,” some of them spoke out — with boos.

For decades, immigrants who become American citizens have been able to sponsor their family members to join them from abroad. The “family-based migration system” has been relabeled “chain migration” by opponents, a new nomenclature not appreciated by many Democrats.

Mr. Trump has announced, as expected, that he has signed an executive order to keep the Guantánamo Bay prison open. Essentially a symbolic act, it brings official executive branch policy into line with what it has effectively been all along: the prison remains open for business, at least for those detainees who are already there.

“I just signed an order directing Secretary Mattis to re-examine our military detention policy and to keep open the detention facilities at Guantánamo Bay,” he said.

Specifically, Mr. Trump’s order revokes an ill-fated January 2009 order signed by former President Barack Obama directing the government to close the prison within a year — a goal Mr. Obama failed to achieve. He did, however, winnow down the number of detainees, from the 242 he inherited from President Bush, to the 41 remaining there when Mr. Trump took office.

Mr. Obama also refused to bring any new detainees to the prison. Mr. Trump vowed during the campaign that he intended to fill it back up “with some bad dudes,” but to date his administration has not added any newly captured terrorism suspects to the inmate population, instead following the Obama approach of using law enforcement procedures and civilian courts to handle them.

The order Mr. Trump signed had a long bureaucratic history. Its first draft, circulated days after he took office, would have gone much farther, including laying the groundwork for reopening the Central Intelligence Agency’s defunct “black site” prisons, where it formerly tortured high-value detainees during the Bush administration.

After an uproar in Congress, including pushback from Secretary of Defense James Mattis, Mr. Trump shelved that idea. The executive order went through various further drafts, eventually being pared to little more than repealing Mr. Obama’s defunct directive.

In August, Mr. Trump was on the cusp of signing it when he appointed the John Kelly, a retired marines general who formerly oversaw the prison operation as the leader of Southern Command, as his chief.

One of Mr. Kelly’s first acts was to send the draft order back to national security agencies and departments for further reworking. Among the apparent changes in the final document was a direction that Mr. Mattis to establish criteria about what should be done with newly captured terrorism suspects.

At least a dozen members of Congress wore purple ribbons at President Trump’s State of the Union address on Tuesday night to help raise awareness about the country’s opioid epidemic.

In October, Mr. Trump declared that the crisis had become a “public health emergency.” Overdoses killed about 64,000 Americans in 2016, making it the leading cause of death for people under 50.

Mr. Trump mentioned the opioid crises again in his speech on Tuesday.

“We must get much tougher on drug dealers and pushers if we are going to succeed in stopping this scourge,” Mr. Trump said, noting the number of overdose deaths in 2016. “My administration is committed to fighting the drug epidemic and helping get treatment for those in need. The struggle will be long and difficult — but, as Americans always do, we will prevail.”

Mr. Trump appeared to throw his support behind having Congress enact legislation to update the 16-year-old statute that provides the legal basis for most counterterrorism operations around the world, making it explicitly cover the Islamic State — also known as ISIS.

“I am also asking the Congress to ensure that, in the fight against ISIS and Al Qaeda, we continue to have all necessary power to detain terrorists — wherever we chase them down.”

Congress enacted the Authorization for Use of Military Force, or A.U.M.F., in September 2001. It authorized war against the perpetrators of the Sept. 11 attacks and those who harbored or aided them — that is, Al Qaeda and the Taliban. But in 2014, the Obama administration stretched it to justify combat operations against the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria, without new Congressional sanction.

That step was legally contentious because even though Islamic State grew out of an Al Qaeda affiliate, the two organizations had split and gone to war with each other. One of the reasons the Trump administration has not brought any Islamic State detainees to the wartime prison at Guantánamo is warnings by legal specialists that doing so would risk giving a judge an opportunity to rule that the A.U.M.F. does not cover the group, jeopardizing the broader war.

The Obama administration had fruitlessly asked Congress to enact a specific military force authorization for the Islamic State as well, while also saying it was legally unnecessary. But disputes over what it should say — including whether it should contain limits on duration, geographical scope, or the use of ground forces — prevented any consensus.

Last fall, Mr. Mattis and Secretary of State Rex Tillerson said the Trump administration did not support Congress overhauling the war authorization law.

President Trump praised Apple for a promise made earlier this month to invest $350 billion in the United States and create 20,000 domestic jobs over five years.

But his speech was devoid of any mention of the role of technology in his vision for the economy. He called for legislation for $1.5 trillion in infrastructure investments for “reclaim our building heritage.” He mentioned roads, bridges, highways, railways and waterways. But he did not mention any of those funds going to the expansion and improvement of broadband internet networks.

Trump talked about investing in work force development and job training. But instead of training for science, technology, engineering or math — or STEM — training, he talked about opening vocational schools.

His words stood in contrast to State of the Union speeches by President Obama, who called for universal broadband for all Americans and the importance of spreading faster networks to close the digital divide.

Yeah, there’s the first lady’s clothes or which big wig will fall asleep this year. But the State of the Union proceedings also have this bit of intrigue: Which cabinet official will earn the distinction of designated survivor?

The mystery this time was solved two hours before Mr. Trump was due to give his address on Tuesday, when the White House said that the honor would go to Mr. Perdue, the former governor of Georgia and the president’s agriculture secretary.

Glamorous in title but, thankfully, not so far in practice, the designated survivor does not attend the president’s address, and is poised to take over the commander-in-chief’s responsibilities in the event that catastrophe strikes the Capitol and wipes out most of the government. If tradition holds, Mr. Perdue will be watching from a distant and secure location while Mr. Trump speaks.

The short tenure of the designated survivor has an oversize presence in the public imagination: There is a TV series by the same title, about a low-profile cabinet member who suddenly assumes the presidency after a terror attack.

How might he measure up in the Oval Office? Mr. Perdue, a conservative Republican, shares something in common with Mr. Trump: As governor of Georgia, he faced ethical criticisms for not appearing to fully separate himself from his business interests. He once ran a grain and fertilizer business.

— Katie Rogers

Hours before his first State of the Union address, President Trump told a group of news anchors at a lunch in the White House that his first year in office has taught him that the biggest difference between excelling in business and performing his current job is that governing takes compassion.

“I’ve really learned a lot,” Mr. Trump told the reporters, according to a partial transcript of an off-the-record lunch released publicly by the White House. “In doing what I’m doing now, a lot of it is heart, a lot of it is compassion, a lot of it is far beyond money — such as immigration.”

Mr. Trump, who is expected to use Tuesday night’s speech to call for a bipartisan compromise that pairs legal status for a group of undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children with funding for a border wall, tougher enforcement and new restrictions on legal immigration, recently said he was hoping to sign a “bill of love.”

That tone is sharply at odds with the president’s approach on immigration thus far, which has included a travel ban against visitors from six countries, slashing refugee resettlement and revoking temporary protected status for people from El Salvador and Haiti. He has been more publicly conflicted about his decision last fall to rescind DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the Obama-era program that has given legal status to certain people brought illegally to the United States as children.

“I’m telling you, the immigration is so easy to solve if it was purely a business matter, but it’s not,” Mr. Trump said. “And I think that’s something that I’ve learned maybe more than anything else: You have to — you govern with all of the instincts of a businessperson, but you have to add much more heart and soul into your decisions than you would ever have even thought of before.”

Here’s a peek at the transcript:

— Julie Hirschfeld Davis

Democratic lawmakers have decided to put a face on the difficult negotiations happening in Congress over the fate of young, undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children. They are bringing scores of such “Dreamers” to the Capitol for Tuesday night’s State of the Union address.

Representative Nancy Pelosi’s guest, Melody Klingenfuss, is just one of them. Born in Guatemala, she was brought to Los Angeles when she was 9, earned a degree in communications and political science from California State University, Los Angeles, a master’s degree from the University of Southern California, then won protection under the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in 2015.

“Tonight, when President Trump looks into the gallery during his State of the Union, he will see the dignity, courage and patriotism of dozens of Dreamers,” said Ms. Pelosi, the House Democratic leader.

But there is a flip side. Representative Paul Gosar, Republican of Arizona, has called the cops.

So much for the warm welcome.

Mr. Gosar’s fellow Arizona Republican, Senator Jeff Flake, didn’t take kindly to his colleague’s citizen’s arrest.

The Trump administration’s announcement on Monday that it would not impose sanctions on countries that buy Russian military equipment sparked an angry response in Congress, where the Senate and House overwhelmingly approved the sanctions to punish Russia for interfering in the 2016 election.

Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri who faces a difficult re-election campaign this year, set the tone with a blast on Twitter.

That concern is bipartisan, at least in some quarters of the Republican Party. Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, was flummoxed by the administration’s decision:

“That bill passed with only two dissenting votes in the Senate. It was not partisan in the least,” she said on CNN. “The one thing we know for sure already is the Russians did attempt to meddle in our elections, and not only should there be a price to pay in terms of sanctions, but also we need to put safeguards in place right now for the elections for this year, because we know that the Russians have not given up on their disinformation campaign and their attempt to sow discord in this country and also to undermine faith in democratic institutions.”

Testifying before a Senate panel on Tuesday morning, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said his department had followed instructions under the sanctions law and drawn up a list of Russian targets for sanctions. An imposition of sanctions could still follow.

Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee and one of the authors of the sanctions legislation, declined to criticize the administration’s actions. He did say, “I look forward” to the implementation of the sanctions.

Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin spent part of the morning before Mr. Trump’s speech tamping down expectations about a secretive Republican memo that some House members have claimed contains evidence that could undercut the Russia investigation.

In a closed-door meeting of House Republicans this morning, Mr. Ryan “implored” his fellow lawmakers not to overstate the facts of the memo, which the House Intelligence Committee voted to release Monday night. And he urged them not to tie the contentious document — which Democrats call dangerously misleading — to the work of the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, according to a person in the room.

Mr. Ryan reiterated some of those points during a public news conference an hour later, saying that he had faith in the F.B.I. and Justice Department’s broadly and that he thought Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein, the man overseeing the Russia investigation, was “doing a fine job.” Still, Mr. Ryan defended the Republicans’ overall approach, saying that they were following proper processes and that only transparency would lead to accountability at the agencies.

That was not enough to quiet the most ardent proponents of the notion that federal law enforcement agents have conspired to bring down the Trump White House. Representative Matt Gaetz, Republican of Florida, called on the president to release the memo during the State of the Union.

— Nicholas Fandos

President Trump loves to brag about the stock market setting record highs, but on the day of his first State of the Union speech, the market isn’t loving him back — for reasons that probably have nothing to do with him or his policies.

Stocks fell sharply at their opening this morning and have stayed down all day. As of 2:30 p.m., the Dow Jones industrial average was down nearly 400 points, or about 1.7 percent, from Monday’s close. The S&P 500 was down about 1.4 percent.

It appeared that the sell-off was driven by rising bond yields and a tumble in health insurer stocks, on the news that Amazon, JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway are launching a health care effort.

As of midafternoon, Mr. Trump had not tweeted about the market news.

— James Tankersley

One constant refrain from White House officials when it comes to State of the Union speeches is this: the president was personally involved in drafting the speech.

It was no different on Tuesday as officials in President Trump’s White House described a “robust,” monthslong process in which Mr. Trump actively reviewed drafts of the speech and repeatedly made suggestions of phrases or anecdotes or words that he wanted to be used when he delivers the address.

The speech was assembled over weeks, with agency heads and cabinet secretaries offering suggestions on accomplishments that the president should highlight or priorities he could push for. Speech-writing meetings at the White House with Stephen Miller, the president’s top speechwriter, John F. Kelly, the chief of staff, and others were coordinated by Rob Porter, the president’s staff secretary.

Aides said that in the last two weeks, Mr. Trump received printed drafts of the speech — with ample margins — and used a black felt marker to make additions, deletions and changes. They said he often edited the drafts in the Oval Office, but sometimes would come down from the residence in the morning with a new draft that he had marked up overnight.

— Michael D. Shear

As the president prepares to speak, his campaign is preparing to cash in.

In a text message to supporters, the Trump campaign offered a few seconds of quasi-fame to donors who give money before his speech. Their names will appear as the speech streams on the Trump campaign website.

“This is a movement,” reads the State of the Union donation form on the campaign site, “which is why your name deserves to be displayed during tonight’s speech.” The Trump campaign offered similar recognition to small donors in the run-up to the Republican National Convention in 2016.

While campaigns regularly raise money based on major events, the Trump campaign’s solicitation is unusual. The names of donors giving more than $200 in a single election cycle must be reported to the Federal Election Commission and are public record, but the voluntary disclosure of the names of small donors is uncommon. Additionally, previous presidents’ campaigns did not raise money for re-election so early in their first term. Former President Barack Obama’s campaign did not file paperwork with the Federal Election Commission and begin raising money until the third year of his presidency.

— Rachel Shorey

Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has called the State of the Union address “a political pep rally.” But he is expected to attend tonight, along with three colleagues: Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Elena Kagan and Neil M. Gorsuch, whom President Trump appointed to the court last year.

Among the missing will be Justice Clarence Thomas, who has said that he cannot tolerate “the catcalls, the whooping and hollering and under-the-breath comments.” Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr., who has called the addresses “very political events” and “very awkward,” is also not expected to attend.

Justice Alito famously mouthed “not true” at the address in 2010 after President Obama’s loose characterization of the Supreme Court’s decision in the Citizens United campaign finance case.

Three members of the court will be out of town tonight: Justices Anthony M. Kennedy, Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Sonia Sotomayor.

The justices who do attend usually make coordinated choices about what statements from the president are uncontroversial enough to warrant applause.

That is hard, Justice Alito said in 2010, because presidents “will fake you out.” They may start with something bland, he said, like, “ ‘Isn’t this the greatest country in the world?’ “

“So you get up and you start to clap,” he said, “and the president will say, ‘Because we are conducting a surge in Iraq’ or ‘Because we are going to enact health care reform,’ and then you immediately have to stop.”

— Adam Liptak

The White House released on Monday the list of people President Trump and his wife, Melania, invited to attend the State of the Union address.

An eclectic cohort will join the first lady: emergency medical workers, service members and faces of Mr. Trump’s tax and immigration overhaul narratives. Here are a few of the people you’ll see:

David Dahlberg, a fire prevention technician, who saved 62 children and staff members from a blaze-encircled summer camp in July during the wildfires in Southern California.

Officer Ryan Holets, of the Albuquerque Police Department, who, according to the White House, was twice shot at during his time as an officer. He and his wife adopted a child from parents who were addicted to opioids.

Steve Staub and Sandy Keplinger, who are the leaders of a Dayton, Ohio, contract manufacturing company focused on metal fabrication. They founded Staub Manufacturing Solutions two decades ago. Over the past year, the company acquired a new building and saw a 60 percent increase in employees — from 23 to 37. Crediting the passage of the tax law, the company gave large Christmas bonuses to all employees.

Four parents whose daughters, the authorities say, were most likely killed by members of the MS-13 gang: Elizabeth Alvarado and Robert Mickens, who lost Nisa Mickens, 15; and Evelyn Rodriguez and Freddy Cuevas, who lost Kayla Cuevas, 16. The teenagers were killed in 2016 on Long Island.

For the full list, read on »

— Emily Baumgaertner

After the women of Hollywood, the women of Congress.

Taking a cue from the call that went out before the Golden Globes for all attendees to wear black in support of Time’s Up and its spotlight on systemic sexual harassment, members of the Democratic Women’s Working Group — Representatives Lois Frankel of Florida, Bonnie Watson Coleman of New Jersey and Jackie Speier of California — invited all members of Congress (men included) to wear black to the State of the Union.

So far, a number of House members have complied, including Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader.

It is not, as it happens, the first time women have used clothing to send a message: at Mr. Trump’s first address to a joint session of Congress last year, many of them wore suffragist white. In both cases, they let their clothes do the talking for them.

— Vanessa Friedman

Jonathan Horn, speechwriter for former President George W. Bush, has these thoughts:

Michael Waldman, president of the Brennan Center for Justice at N.Y.U. School of Law and a speechwriter for former President Bill Clinton, also weighed in:

Cody Keenan, chief speechwriter for former President Barack Obama, also had concerns:

— Interviews by Michael D. Shear

HANGZHOU, China — President Obama and President Xi Jinping of China formally committed the world’s two largest economies to the Paris climate agreement here on Saturday, cementing their partnership on climate change and offering a rare display of harmony in a relationship that has become increasingly discordant.

On multiple fronts, like computer hacking and maritime security, ties between China and the United States have frayed during the seven and a half years of Mr. Obama’s presidency. The friction has worsened since the ascension of Mr. Xi as a powerful nationalist leader in 2013.

Yet the fact that he and Mr. Obama could set aside those tensions to work together yet again on a joint plan to reduce greenhouse gases attests to the pragmatic personal rapport they have built, as well as to the complexity of the broader United States-China relationship, a tangle of competing and congruent interests.

At a ceremony in this picturesque lakefront city, the two leaders hailed the adoption of the Paris agreement as critical to bringing it into force worldwide. Though widely expected as the next step in the legal process, the move could provide a boost to those who want to build momentum for further climate talks by bringing the December accord into effect as soon as possible.

Countries accounting for 55 percent of the world’s emissions must present formal ratification documents for that to happen, and together, China and the United States generate nearly 40 percent of the world’s emissions.

“Despite our differences on other issues, we hope our willingness to work together on this issue will inspire further ambition and further action around the world,” Mr. Obama declared.

Mr. Xi praised the Paris agreement as a milestone, adding, “It was under Chinese leadership that much of this progress was made.”

From the moment he stepped off Air Force One on his final visit to Asia as president, Mr. Obama confronted a resurgent China, undaunted by his efforts to restore America’s presence in the region and poised to capitalize on his troubles in winning congressional passage of his ambitious regional trade agreement, the Trans-Pacific Partnership.

Mr. Obama’s chaotic welcome on the tarmac captured the mood on the eve of the G20 summit. There were arguments at the airport between White House aides and Chinese security officials who tried to keep back reporters. Shouting matches also broke out between Mr. Obama’s staff and guards over how many people were allowed into the state guesthouse where he and Mr. Xi later met.

In recent years, the Obama administration has sought to highlight cooperation on climate change, but China’s commitments, first made in 2014, have been less a concession to American pressure than a restatement of its own goals. They include a promise for China’s carbon emissions to reach a plateau or decline “around 2030,” but without any specific target for reductions like those Mr. Obama pledged for the United States (between 26 and 28 percent of 2005 levels by 2025). That means China has plenty of room to continue burning fossil fuels to power its economy.

“The story of the past eight years is not mainly the pivot or the rebalance; it is the very substantial increases in Chinese capacities since 2008,” said Jeffrey A. Bader, who helped formulate Mr. Obama’s Asia strategy as his chief China adviser in the first term.

“How has the U.S. dealt with that?” he added. “How has the U.S. confronted that?”

The Obama administration has experimented with a variety of approaches: pledging to respect China’s “core interests” in 2009; shifting in 2011 to a more assertive stance — verging on containment — as Mr. Obama articulated his pivot to Asia; then resisting China’s proposal in 2012 to embark on a new model of great-power relations.

To some critics, that was an inconsistent strategy — one that alternately cheered or sowed anxiety among American allies, and likewise alienated or emboldened China. Under Mr. Xi’s leadership, China has made aggressive claims to shoals and reefs in the South China Sea, picking fights with neighbors like the Philippines and Vietnam.

“This back and forth has, I think, exacerbated what was already a growing problem with a China that was already more assertive in the context of the financial crisis,” said Michael J. Green, who was the chief Asia adviser on the National Security Council in the George W. Bush administration and is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

But the administration’s defenders, like Mr. Bader, argue that Mr. Obama was merely following in the tradition of presidents, Democrat and Republican alike, dating back to Richard M. Nixon. They have tried to manage China’s rise by drawing it into the international system and prodding it to accept rules of the road in trade, navigation and other areas.

However, China has dismissed a recent ruling by an international tribunal in The Hague that rebuked its aggressive reclamation of land on disputed shoals in the South China Sea and invalidated its historical claims to a large swath of those waters.

Mr. Obama was expected to press Mr. Xi to abide by the ruling in a meeting after the climate ceremony, less because he expected the Chinese leader to reverse himself than because the ruling is a vital predicate for undermining the legitimacy of China’s imperial claims.

Still, even after Mr. Obama deployed Navy ships to the Pacific, sent Marines to Australia and paid for greater access to the military bases of an old ally, the Philippines, China now has greater control of the South China Sea than it enjoyed at the start of his presidency.

Meanwhile, Mr. Obama’s struggle to pass the Trans-Pacific Partnership has stoked doubts about America’s economic staying power. The 12-nation pact, which excludes China, has become the centerpiece of the pivot to Asia. But it has fallen victim to election-year politics at home and now seems unlikely to pass, even in a lame-duck Congress.

Some of the nations that signed on, particularly Japan — America’s most important Asian ally and a nervous neighbor of China — have made political sacrifices by opening markets in order to meet the standards demanded by the United States. Failure to pass the trade pact, Asian diplomats and analysts said, would leave them feeling burned.

“The Japanese, living in an uncertain world, depending on an American nuclear umbrella, will have to say on trade: ‘The Americans could not follow through,’” Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore said during a recent visit to Washington, standing next to Mr. Obama. “If it’s a matter of life and death, whom do I have to depend on?”

Mr. Obama and his chief trade negotiator, Michael B. Froman, understand the stakes. They plan a full-court press to sell the pact on this presidential trip — characterizing its passage as a litmus test of American leadership — in hopes that the message will echo back home.

“We are one vote away from cementing our leadership in Asia or ceding it to China,” Mr. Froman said in an interview in Beijing. “I’m not sure Congress wants to hand the keys to the castle to China.”

The Trans-Pacific Partnership is viewed in Asia as the handiwork of Mr. Obama in particular, especially since the Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, who repeatedly backed it when she was Mr. Obama’s secretary of state, has renounced her support. If Congress fails to pass it, Asian diplomats said, China will emerge as a victor.

“It will be a political disaster and play into the Chinese narrative that China is a geopolitical fact, whereas the U.S. presence is the consequence of a geopolitical calculation which could change and thus is not reliable,” said Bilahari Kausikan, the ambassador at large for Singapore.

In practical terms, the United States would lose the chance to shape the economic future of the region, allowing China to forge ahead with its “Sino-centric economic order,” which includes a multibillion-dollar project to build a new Silk Road linking Asia to Europe.

Mr. Bader is among several American officials who are guardedly confident that the next presidential administration will find a way to win approval for the Trans-Pacific Partnership, perhaps by adding side agreements on contentious points. But he expressed concern that the South China Sea would be a chronic source of friction.

“The situation hasn’t stabilized,” Mr. Bader said. “Achieving that is beyond the capacity of the U.S. alone.”

China has extended its military reach there by building artificial islands with airfields, facilities that American commanders have said they regard as military bases. Although China appears to be taking stock of the situation since the unfavorable ruling in The Hague, Chinese military officials warn that they will continue with their building program in the waterway.

“China will never stop our construction,” the head of China’s navy, Adm. Wu Shengli, said in July.

Last month, China took delivery of a dredger, one of the biggest in its inventory, from a Dutch shipyard. The vessel would be suitable for dredging at Scarborough Shoal, a disputed reef 150 miles from the Philippines.

China, some academics say, plans to create an extremely large artificial island that would complete a strategic triangle of bases in the sea.

“Obama is seen as reluctant to push back,” said Alan Dupont, a former defense intelligence analyst for the Australian government. “He has allowed China to militarize the islands in the South China Sea. The United States hasn’t put it at the top of its list.”

To reassure its allies, Mr. Dupont said, the United States would have to reinforce its military presence in the Pacific even further than it has under Mr. Obama’s pivot, or rebalance, as it has also been called.

“There has to be a rebalance plus,” he said.

Twitter, the well-known but less-well-used social network of 140-character quips about the news, is polarizing. You’re either an addict, or you don’t get it.

And if you get it, explaining what it is and why you’re on it — and why you can’t stop looking at it even though you’re supposed to be tending to your 3-year-old at the park, on the swings, where she’s just fallen and hit her face, something that actually happened to me — can be a challenge even in ordinary times.

But the last year and a half were not ordinary times. In the midst of the craziest period of breaking news in recent memory — not just Donald J. Trump but San Bernardino and Paris and Brexit and Scalia and the Cubs (and did I mention Donald J. Trump?) — Twitter’s pull grew irresistible, and then overwhelming and then world-swallowing.

Historians and media theorists will one day study whether the journalistic corps’s devotion to a platform that prizes cutting remarks over nuance and empathy was ultimately good for the republic. But for news addicts like myself, little of that mattered.

The thrill of Twitter in 2016 was visceral and habit-forming. It was the show that never stopped, the fireworks display you couldn’t keep your eyes off even as it grew dangerously bright and transfixing, and then set the whole town on fire and invited floods and locusts and plague, too.

But what now? As a business, Twitter had not been having a good run before the presidential election reached its spectacular conclusion. New users aren’t joining the service and longtime denizens have been using it less. When Twitter tried to sell itself this fall, nobody wanted to buy it.

Both potential users and would-be acquirers seem turned off by its complexity, its ugliness (Twitter has become a haven for misogynists, racists and other trolls), and most deeply its apparent uselessness for people who aren’t clustered in the bubbles of tech, politics and media.

All that considered, Twitter had a good week. On election night, as Americans watched this once-in-a-lifetime election happen, they flooded to Twitter to comment and congratulate and commiserate, sending traffic on the service to all-time highs. On Wednesday, while the shares of most technology companies plummeted, Twitter’s stock rose slightly.

Yet it wouldn’t be much of a surprise if this moment turns out to be the peak for Twitter. After the election, a handful of Twitter loyalists confessed to feeling alienation over the role the service played in their lives, and the country, this year.

“At best, it was just quips and outrages — a diet of candy,” wrote Brent Simmons, a well-known software developer who took his feed dark after blaming the service for, among other things, being part of the system that helped elect Mr. Trump.

But it was less partisan outrage and more a feeling of exhaustion that inspired a new round of quitter Twitter last week.

“Twitter is toxic,” tweeted Steve Kovach, a writer at the Business Insider website who likened the service to an unshakable addiction. “I can’t stand it anymore,” he told me in a private message on Twitter. “I started regularly deleting my tweets this summer and unfollowed everyone and started over. It was driving me nuts and making me sad.” Mr. Kovach said he has had trouble sticking with his self-imposed ban, but that the campaign’s end had strengthened his resolve.

As a Twitter binger, I, too, had a similar impulse to question my commitment to the service after the election. It felt so insular, so time-consuming and yet so meaningless, too, in the grand scheme of things. It feels like time for detox. As they might say on Twitter (where people are fond of saying things in weird ways): What even are we doing here? And why can’t we stop?

Though Facebook is by far the larger and more consequential social network, Twitter functioned as this election cycle’s heartbeat. Just about every story that captivated the campaign either began on Twitter or got its viral energy there; a breaking news event wasn’t really a breaking news event until it was a tweet that could be passed around and commented on, and only then would it hit the wider online and television news circuit.

Olivia Nuzzi, who covers politics for The Daily Beast, told me that even though she found Twitter to be “a very upsetting social media platform” that allowed people to bombard her every day with the most ghastly content, she considered it vital to her job. “If I’m not on Twitter for 30 minutes, I miss a story,” she said.

One Friday afternoon near the end of the campaign, exhausted from the constant thrum of news, Ms. Nuzzi said she inadvertently fell asleep at her kitchen table. She woke up to a news release from the Trump campaign defending his words as “locker room talk.”

“It turned out that David Fahrenthold’s story about the ‘Access Hollywood’ tape had blown up and taken over the election,” she said, “and it was because I wasn’t on Twitter for 15 minutes that I didn’t know what Trump was talking about.”

With its short posts and chronological feed, Twitter was perhaps always destined to play this seeding role in the campaign news cycle. But its centrality was cemented on June 16, 2015, the day Mr. Trump descended in the gilded escalator at his Manhattan skyscraper to announce his intention, then quixotic-seeming, to run for president.

The man the world would come to know as @realdonaldtrump joined Twitter in 2009, after a publicist urged him to use the service to promote a new book, “Think Like a Champion.” He took to Twitter instantly, instinctively getting the punchy rhythms of a perfectly crafted tweet.

Mr. Trump also possessed in spades the primary fuel of every successful Twitter account: a bottomless thirst for promoting one’s supposedly necessary ideas on anything and everything, no matter how frivolous the subject or banal the observation.

“Everyone knows I am right that Robert Pattinson should dump Kristen Stewart,” he declared in a typical tweet from 2012. “In a couple of years, he will thank me. Be smart, Robert.”

For much of the campaign, Hillary Clinton, whose staff would spend hours composing her campaign tweets, repeatedly tweaked Mr. Trump on his apparent inability to moderate himself on the service. In the final weeks of the campaign, after Mr. Trump’s staff banned him from tweeting, President Obama also took to the mockery.

“In the last two days, they had so little confidence in his self-control, they said we’re just going to take away your Twitter,” Mr. Obama said. “Now, if somebody can’t handle a Twitter account, they can’t handle the nuclear codes.”

Though many on Twitter got a laugh out of the president’s line, I suspect more than a few were chuckling inwardly. Mr. Obama’s construction — “if somebody can’t handle a Twitter account” — assumed a fact not in evidence: that there are any Twitter users who can actually comport themselves well when presented with the awesome power of an unfiltered text box that instantly goes out to the world.

Anyone who’s halfway decent on Twitter lives in constant fear of saying something wrong, and the frisson of danger, the flirtation with getting fired, is both the peril and the promise of Twitter. Perhaps it’s for this reason that Mr. Obama also does not usually handle his own Twitter account; he has the nuclear codes, but Twitter, that’s just too dangerous.

The inherent danger of Twitter compounds the mystery of why anyone tweets in the first place. People on Twitter aren’t given to introspection about the service; the things one does on Twitter tend not to be discussed outside of Twitter, for much the same reason that heroin addicts don’t talk with friends and family about their favorite methods of mainlining.

When asked in the third presidential debate why he uses the service, Mr. Trump seemed at a loss. “Tweeting happens to be a modern-day form of communication,” he said. (Fact-check: True!) After reveling in his follower count and the effectiveness of his tweets, he added, “I’m not unproud of it, to be honest with you.”

Jack Dorsey, a founder of Twitter and its chief executive, declined to be interviewed for this article. But he has often spoken in lofty terms about Twitter’s potential to expand democratic discourse, especially for activists, including the #blacklivesmatter protesters, whom Mr. Dorsey joined on the streets of Ferguson, Mo., in 2014.

More recently, he has also acknowledged that Twitter has been too slow in offering ways to curb some of the most terrible parts of the service, including trolling. “Twitter’s a reflection of the world, and it definitely makes it easy to say anything, and sometimes those things aren’t positive — and maybe in some cases it makes it way too easy,” he said at the Recode Conference in June.

Over the last few days, I called a number of people who’ve been hooked to Twitter this year to ask why they kept at it, and whether they may stop after the election. What was striking was how many people, unprompted, floated the idea that their use was a result of some kind of addiction.

Stuart Stevens, the lead strategist of Mitt Romney’s 2012 presidential campaign and the author of the political satire “The Innocent Have Nothing to Fear,” told me he started tweeting a few years ago when social media experts at The Daily Beast, where Mr. Stevens wrote a regular column, told him he had to promote himself. He’s been hooked ever since. “I got a good appreciation of why the first hit of crack is free,” Mr. Stevens said.

Clara Jeffrey, the editor of Mother Jones magazine, said she appreciated Twitter as a source of news, but was troubled by the increasing sexism, racism, anti-Semitism and a general tide of misinformation that swamped the service during the last few weeks of the election. And yet she, too, couldn’t stop using Twitter, even as she wondered about its effects.

“I think everybody has been really anxious about the election, and for any number of good reasons,” Ms. Jeffrey said. “But the question we’re not going to have great perspective on is how much social media is the cause of the anxiety, both in a chemical sense — in the sense of us being addicted to it, like a dopamine drip — but also because it’s the platform for so much disinformation and hate.”

Ms. Jeffrey conceded it’s not all anxiety. There have been many moments during the race in which Twitter was collectively thrilling, sometimes even plain fun.

When Mr. Trump suddenly announced he’d make a trip to Mexico, or when he set up a table of off-brand raw steaks at one of his campaign events, or when a Twitter user discovered that portions of Melania Trump’s convention speech had been cribbed from Michelle Obama — at these moments, Twitter exploded in an orgy of jokes. It functioned as group therapy as much as entertainment, a kind of gallows humor in the face of a campaign gone mad.

“At this point, for people who’ve been following the campaign for the last two years, it’s almost difficult to have conversations with people who haven’t been following it — with ‘normal people,’” said Oliver Darcy, the politics editor of Business Insider. “And so Twitter often feels homier than hanging out with people who aren’t following the election. When you’re not surrounded by people who are always talking about this stuff, it almost feels like you’re out of place.”

I feel that. Twitter, during this campaign, really did become a second home for me. Sure, it was a home strewn with hot garbage, a haunted house that often pushed me to question my sanity. And one that did little to edify our democracy, that turned every campaign story into a moment for a sound bite or a joke, that promoted the soul-destroying notion that campaign news is best experienced as a kind of spectator sport of warring sides rather than something substantial that, you know, matters to the country and stuff.

So it wasn’t a great home. And it’s likely best we all take a break from it for some time. And yet, I’m not unproud of it, to be honest with you.

MOSCOW — Russia on Saturday ordered 23 British diplomats to leave the country within a week, escalating a diplomatic crisis after a former Russian spy and his daughter were poisoned with a military grade nerve agent on British soil.

The order came days after Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain expelled the same number of Russian diplomats and called off high-level contacts between the two governments.

The Russians also ordered the closing of the British Council, a cultural and educational organization, in Russia, and revoked permission for the British consulate general in St. Petersburg.

The announcement came after the British ambassador, Laurie Bristow, was summoned to the Foreign Ministry in Moscow on Saturday morning.

In a statement, the Foreign Ministry cast Russia as the aggrieved party, asserting that Russia was acting “in response to the unfounded accusation against the Russian Federation for what happened in Salisbury.”

It added, “The British side is warned that, in the case of further actions of an unfriendly character toward Russia, the Russian side reserves the right to take other answering measures.”

The Kremlin delayed its response for three days until a day before national elections on Sunday, for which Mr. Putin has campaigned while casting himself as a defender of Russia against Western aggression.

The spy, Sergei V. Skripal, and his daughter, Yulia Skripal, were found unresponsive on a park bench in the cathedral city of Salisbury, England, after being attacked on March 4. British officials said the lethal nerve agent, Novichok, had been created in the Soviet Union in the 1970s and ‘80s.

The Kremlin has flatly denied any involvement in the attack, even as state television announcers have pointedly referred to the poisoning as a warning to traitors.

The case has roiled relations between the two countries, with Britain announcing that in addition to other measures, no ministers or members of the royal family would attend the World Cup hosted by Russia this summer.

Mr. Bristow, the British ambassador, told journalists in Moscow on Saturday, “We will always do what is necessary to defend ourselves, our allies and our values against an attack of this sort.”

The diplomatic crisis, he added, “has arisen as a result of an appalling attack in the United Kingdom, the attempted murder of two people using a chemical weapon developed in Russia and not declared by Russia” with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, as is required by treaty.

The tit-for-tat expulsions were the second such episode following geopolitically related poisonings in Britain.

After the British government blamed a Russian agent for adding a lethal dose of the radioactive element polonium-210 to tea sipped by Alexander V. Litvinenko, a former Russian Security Service officer, Britain expelled four Russian diplomats in 2007, and Russia responded in kind.

At a going-away party in Moscow for the expelled Britons, the “James Bond” theme music played on a loop.

In December 2016, the Obama administration expelled 35 Russian diplomats in retaliation for Moscow’s meddling in the United States presidential election that year. Russia, in turn, ordered the United States to cut its diplomatic presence in Russia to the same level as Russia’s in America, a reduction of about 700 positions, though these included support staff.

This time, Britain’s swift response seems to have played into the hands of President Vladimir V. Putin in domestic Russian politics.

As the Russian elections have approached and the row with Britain escalated, Mr. Putin has cast himself as the protector of a country besieged by outside forces. In interviews released this past week, for example, he described previously undisclosed decisions he had made in tense moments during his long tenure as commander in chief.

In 2014, he said, he ordered the downing of a passenger plane suspected of having been hijacked by terrorists intent on crashing it into the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics in Sochi, though it was a false alarm.

Mr. Putin said terrorists who seized a theater in Moscow in 2002 had intended to execute hostages on Red Square, but were thwarted when he ordered the release of a powerful sleeping gas on the premises — though this killed more than 100 hostages.

The Russian news media is generally portraying the poisoning of the Skripals in Britain as a plot against Russia, one intended, improbably, to derail Mr. Putin’s election chances — he is widely expected to win easily — or as revenge for Britain’s having lost a bid years ago to host the World Cup soccer tournament.

“A Nervous Paralytic Reaction,” the state newspaper, Rossiyskaya Gazeta, proclaimed about the British response.” “Theresa May Has Poisoned Relations Between London and Moscow,” a headline in Izvestia declared.

Komsomolskaya Pravda, another newspaper, quoted a chemist, Zhores Medvedev, as saying that the attempted murders may have been the work of exiled Russian oligarchs who had somehow obtained the rare poison.

“This is a provocation,” he said. “The campaign that Britain has fomented with the World Cup soccer tournament, which instead of England will take place this year in Russia, always leads to certain suspicions.”

After the expulsions, Mrs. May said on Saturday that “Russia’s response doesn’t change the facts of the matter: the attempted assassination of two people on British soil, for which there is no alternative conclusion other than that the Russian state was culpable.”

The British Foreign Office said in statement, “In light of Russia’s previous behavior, we anticipated a response of this kind and the National Security Council will meet early next week to consider next steps.”