CHICAGO — A sense of nostalgia has begun to creep into the last months of Barack Obama’s presidency, lending the feeling of a valedictory tour to a rare trip he made this weekend to his adopted hometown, Chicago.

An almost sepia-toned wistfulness settled over Mr. Obama the moment he stepped off Air Force One at O’Hare International Airport as he gave Mayor Rahm Emanuel — his first White House chief of staff — a fierce and lengthy embrace.

Mr. Obama then sped away for a fund-raiser at the vast modernist home of Fred Eychaner, a prominent Democratic donor who was one of the president’s earliest political supporters. Sitting around the oval tables in Mr. Eychaner’s living room was much of the city’s Democratic elite.

“Fred is an early investor, an angel investor, in my political career,” Mr. Obama said to laughter. “But that’s true for so many others.”

Mr. Obama’s Chicago appreciation tour began on Sept. 30, when he hosted a private party at the White House attended by about 20 former and current members of the Illinois Legislature and the Chicago City Council, many of whom had served with or helped Mr. Obama, according to The Chicago Sun-Times. Some members of Mr. Obama’s Illinois political staff also attended the party, which was not on the official White House schedule.

The president showered each person with attention, and the White House served deep-dish Chicago-style pizza.

Mr. Obama’s outreach comes as plans are taking shape for his presidential library and charitable foundation in Chicago, an effort that will require $1 billion in donations as well as zoning approvals and other political support. Over the summer, the Obamas chose the architects for the project and the site in Jackson Park where it will be built.

Much of the president’s evening on Friday in Chicago — spent at two restaurants, including one named Sepia — was devoted to discussions with friends and supporters about the library and foundation, said Eric Schultz, a White House spokesman.

Mr. Obama then went golfing on Saturday at the Olympia Fields Country Club with several members of the city’s wealthy elite, including Alan P. Solow, a bankruptcy lawyer and philanthropist who was also one of Mr. Obama’s earliest supporters.

The president stayed Friday and Saturday nights at the family’s home on the South Side, a house the Obamas have made clear they will not be living in for some time, if ever again. They have decided to rent a nine-bedroom house in the Kalorama neighborhood of Washington at least until their younger daughter, Sasha, completes high school in 2019. Mr. Obama will be the first president in decades to remain in Washington after his presidency.

Nostalgia has drawn Mr. Obama back to Illinois before: In February, he went to Springfield, the capital, where exactly nine years before he had begun his long-shot campaign for the White House. He spoke affectionately about his time in the Illinois Legislature, where he said lawmakers listened and compromised.

Michelle Obama, who grew up in Chicago, did not attend the Sept. 30 White House event or travel with her husband this weekend. She was instead at Camp David for what Mr. Obama described as “her own girls’ weekend.”

Mrs. Obama has begun making her own set of sometimes emotional goodbyes. On Wednesday, she became emotional at a dedication of the kitchen garden she established at the White House. Some of her most important and earliest advisers, including Sam Kass, who led her “Let’s Move!” fitness campaign, were present.

“We’re having a lot of these emotional moments because everything is the last,” Mrs. Obama said. “But this is particularly my baby because this garden is where it all started. So we’re really coming full circle back to the very beginning.”

There are limits, however, to Mrs. Obama’s wistfulness. She is so eager to leave the White House that Mr. Obama makes frequent jokes about it at fund-raisers and other events. At the White House Correspondents’ Association Dinner in April, he mentioned that someone had climbed over the White House fence the week before.

“But I have to give Secret Service credit, they found Michelle, brought her back, she’s safe back at home now,” he said to laughter, including Mrs. Obama’s. “It’s only nine more months, baby. Settle down.”

Mrs. Obama has been on the campaign trail for Hillary Clinton, becoming one of the Clinton campaign’s most effective surrogates. Mrs. Obama may be the most popular national political figure, with approval numbers hovering around 64 percent. But she has vowed that her next job will not be in politics.

“Can you believe I’m campaigning again?” she said in Charlotte, N.C., on Tuesday. “But I’m happy to be out here. Because this is the last time.”

WASHINGTON —  President Obama on Wednesday called for Americans to reject “bigotry in all its forms” and keep pressing for equality “no matter what ugliness might bubble up,” appearing to use the 150th anniversary of the constitutional amendment abolishing slavery to challenge the incendiary anti-Muslim politics espoused by Donald J. Trump.

At a ceremony at the Capitol attended by congressional leaders and civil rights activists, Mr. Obama sought to place the end of slavery in the broader context of the nation’s troubled history, saying the issue “was never simply about civil rights; it was about the meaning of America, the kind of country we wanted to be.”

But he also made subtle reference to the roiling political debate that is consuming the 2016 presidential race, implicitly rebuking Mr. Trump, the Republican front-runner in the polls, who has proposed temporarily barring foreign Muslims from entering the United States.

“Our freedom is bound up with the freedom of others, regardless of what they look like, or where they come from, or what their last name is or what faith they practice,” Mr. Obama said in the Capitol Visitor Center’s Emancipation Hall, filled with statues and busts of human rights leaders including Sojourner Truth.

His voice rose considerably as he mentioned “faith,” and many attendees, including Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House minority leader, gave him a standing ovation at the reference. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader, however, remained seated, along with Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader.

“We betray the efforts of the past if we fail to push back against bigotry in all its forms,” Mr. Obama said. “We betray our most noble past as well if we were to deny the possibility of movement, the possibility of progress — if we were to let cynicism consume us and fear overwhelm us, if we lost hope.”

The president did not mention Mr. Trump in his remarks. The White House said Mr. Obama had not intended to speak directly to Mr. Trump in his speech, nor had any language been “newly inserted” to respond to one individual.

“This is quite consistent with the message the president has been delivering for a number of years,” said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, when asked about the comments during a briefing with reporters. “It stands in quite stark contrast to the language, message and values that is being promulgated not only by Mr. Trump, but by a variety of Republican candidates in the presidential field.”

The ceremony drew congressional leaders from both parties, as well as a group of black lawmakers who took turns recounting the process by which the 13th Amendment was passed in Congress and then ratified by the states, reaching the requisite three-fourths of the states on Dec. 6, 1865, when Georgia ratified it.

“At long last, we stopped poisoning the soul of our country with the atrocity of slavery,” Ms. Pelosi said.

Mr. Ryan noted that black soldiers fought in segregated forces during the Civil War and said the simple wording of the 43-word amendment belied its significance. “We have witnessed true greatness in this country,” he said. “And when we ratified the 13th Amendment, we committed ourselves to building a country just as great.”

In his remarks, Mr. Obama returned to themes he has sounded throughout his presidency — but with increasing frequency during his second term — acknowledging the painful legacy and lingering scars of slavery and racial discrimination, as well as the potential for moving beyond them that he has come to embody as the nation’s first black president.

“That’s what we celebrate today, the long arc of progress,” Mr. Obama said. “Progress that is never assured, never guaranteed, but always possible, always there to be earned, no matter how stuck we might seem sometimes, however divided or despairing we might appear, no matter what ugliness might bubble up.”

He said Americans would “do a disservice” to those who fought for an end to slavery “were we to deny that the scars of our nation’s original sin are still with us today.”

What happened to America’s progressive era?

Eight years ago, voters in the shadow of the financial crisis elected the nation’s first black president, one with the most liberal policy platform since the administration of Lyndon Johnson in the 1960s.

Rahm Emanuel, President Obama’s incoming chief of staff, gleefully pointed out that crises “are opportunities to do big things.” The Wall Street Journal’s editorial board warned its readers of an impending smorgasbord of liberal policy ideas.

Yet by the time the polls closed on Tuesday , tens of millions of Americans voted for a policy platform that included profiling Muslims, expelling millions of unauthorized immigrants, walling off the nation’s third-largest trading partner and starting a trade war with the world’s next superpower.

The intense illiberal passion that emerged in the liberal Obama era to propel Mr. Trump to victory paints a troubling portrait of American society. It is one dominated by racial hostility, which stands above any other consideration, undercutting the very notion that national problems merit a collective response.

Consider the challenges ahead for the nation. The new administration will face rampant inequality and persistent poverty, decaying infrastructure, and mediocre and segregated public education. It will have to deal with one of the most expensive, least effective health care systems in the industrialized world. And one way or another, it will have to address climate change.

Mr. Trump’s mobilization of the frustration of aging white Americans without a college degree, who believe they are losing their country to a more ethnically diverse future, is not going to make this any easier.

Racism is hardly new to America. It lies behind the United States’ knottiest paradox: Millions of white Americans who would benefit from a more robust government are steadfastly against it, at least partly out of a belief that minorities would gain at their expense.

That racial polarization — fed by Mr. Trump’s overt racial appeals that began with his false claims that Barack Obama was not born in the United States — has intensified since Mr. Obama took office. In many ways, that is the biggest obstacle to the development of any sort of national project.

Consider health care. In 2007, 69 percent of the public said it believed that it was the responsibility of the federal government to ensure that every American had health care coverage, according to a Gallup poll. By last year, support for such government intervention was down to roughly 50 percent.

Republicans’ relentless attack on the Affordable Care Act certainly contributed to changing opinion. So did the botched rollout of the federal government’s health insurance marketplace, healthcare.gov, and rising premiums.

But that doesn’t fully account for the fundamental shift. In “Post-Racial or Most-Racial: Race and Politics in the Obama Era,” (University of Chicago Press), Michael Tesler, an assistant professor of political science at the University of California, Irvine, argues that “the declining support for government health insurance during Barack Obama’s presidency was driven by racially conservative defections.”

Drawing from the 2012 American National Election Study, Professor Tesler found that only one-fifth of the most “racially resentful” whites (measured by their responses to questions about the causes of racial inequality and discrimination) supported health insurance provided by the government, compared with half of the least racially resentful.

Much of the opposition is set off directly by President Obama’s race, Professor Tesler says. In similar surveys from 1988 to 2008, before Mr. Obama became president, support for government health insurance among racially resentful whites was considerably higher.

Opposition is also fueled by the sense that blacks would gain more; 56 percent of respondents to a poll in 2010 commissioned by Stanford and The Associated Press said the Affordable Care Act would “probably cause most black Americans to get better health care than they get today.” Only 45 percent said the same thing about whites.

The dynamic doesn’t apply just to health care. Professor Tesler finds similar racial patterns in support of raising top marginal tax rates and in favor of the fiscal stimulus package of 2009. Fewer than 20 percent of the most racially resentful whites thought the stimulus was a good idea, compared with more than 60 percent of the most racially liberal.

Mr. Obama’s race probably intensified such misgivings, but they have been there all along, shaping politics and policy for a very long time.

It has been half a century since the Democratic Party lost much of the Southern white vote, after the Johnson administration pushed the Civil Rights Act through Congress. John E. Roemer, a professor of economics and political science at Yale, notes that to this day “the white Southern vote is the reason that the Republican Party remains a player in U.S. national politics.”

The racial divide remains the main obstacle to building a robust American state — entangling the debate over taxes and spending in a zero-sum calculation over “us” versus “them.”

In a paper published a decade ago, Professor Roemer and Woojin Lee, now a professor of economics at Korea University, estimated that voter racism reduced the top income tax rate by 11 to 18 percentage points. The magnitude, they wrote, “would seem to explain the difference between the sizes of the public sector in the U.S. and Northern European countries.”

What does Mr. Trump's victory portend for the American project?

For starters, he will have to deal with House Speaker Paul D. Ryan, a canonical Republican who doesn’t naturally share Mr. Trump’s hostility toward trade or immigration.

As Mark Zandi of Moody’s Analytics describes it, Mr. Trump’s policy wish list, if actually carried out, would probably foster an economic disaster.

Perhaps most importantly, Mr. Trump will have exposed the United States to the depth of its racism. That is perhaps his most important legacy.

Tuesday’s results are likely to prove even more racially lopsided than in 2012, when nonwhites amounted to 45 percent of President Obama’s voters but just 10 percent of the Republican Mitt Romney’s. The Republican Party’s reliance on less-educated white men and women is likely to intensify. Racial mistrust will remain a powerful political lever to exploit.

Under these circumstances, an ambitious policy agenda to combat climate change or battle income inequality and persistent poverty seems like a pipe dream. Repairing decaying infrastructure and improving public education will most likely also remain out of reach.

The next progressive era will have to wait until the political system figures out how to build bonds of solidarity across racial and ethnic lines. Perhaps America’s growing diversity will ultimately lead to a more generous society. But based on the campaign that just ended, it’s not looking good.