WASHINGTON — They stood not 10 feet apart in a V.I.P. box: the 58-year-old vice president of the United States and the 30-year-old sister of North Korea’s reclusive dictator, representatives of two countries locked in a stubborn, ever more perilous nuclear standoff.

But Mike Pence and Kim Yo-jong stared fixedly ahead during the chilly, blustery opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics on Friday in Pyeongchang, South Korea. There would be no dramatic handshake to upstage the athletes, flag carriers, drummers or torchbearers.

The politics behind this near miss were set a week earlier in Washington, a senior administration official said, when President Trump told Mr. Pence, in a meeting with Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson and the national security adviser, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, that he was open to a meeting between the vice president and the North Koreans — but only if Mr. Pence delivered a tough message, and only if the encounter was away from TV cameras.

Neither of those conditions applied on Friday. As an official traveling with Mr. Pence told reporters, it would have been tough to talk “geopolitics over speed skating.” In any event, neither Ms. Kim nor Kim Yong-nam, 90, the president of North Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly, who accompanied her to the Games, made an approach toward Mr. Pence.

And yet the tableau was still historic — the visible manifestation of a great contest playing out between the United States and North Korea over how to shape South Korea’s perceptions of North-South relations in the uncertain period after the Olympics are over.

Mr. Pence, seated next to President Moon Jae-in of South Korea and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan, projected an image of solidarity with America’s allies against an aggressive North Korea. Ms. Kim, seated a row behind them, brought a message of unity from her brother Kim Jong-un, becoming the first member of the Kim dynasty to visit the South since the Korean War.

Mr. Moon, administration officials said, wanted Mr. Pence to shake hands with the North Koreans, viewing it as a way to further the South’s diplomatic engagement with the North. So did Mr. Tillerson, who has been fumbling for his own channel to the North. But Mr. Trump, the officials said, was suspicious of a publicity stunt that would play to North Korea’s advantage.

“A handshake would have been a dramatic image, regardless of how it ultimately played out,” said Evan S. Medeiros, a former Asia adviser to President Barack Obama. “President Moon would have run with it and Kim Jong-un would have maximized the South’s enthusiasm. Washington would then have spent several months trying to walk it back.”

Indeed, Mr. Pence spent much of his trip to Asia shoring up the United States’ ties with South Korea and Japan, and flinging sharp words at North Korea. In Tokyo, he warned that his country would soon impose harsh new sanctions on the North. The timing of those sanctions was unclear, though one official suggested that they might take a while.

“The time has come for North Korea to permanently abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile ambitions, to recognize there is no future as a member of the family of nations for a nuclear-empowered North Korea,” Mr. Pence said to reporters after visiting a memorial to the Cheonan, a South Korean Navy warship sunk by North Korea in 2010, killing 46 sailors.

At the memorial, Mr. Pence also met with four North Korean defectors, along with Fred Warmbier, the father of Otto F. Warmbier, the college student from Cincinnati who fell into an irreversible coma after being detained in Pyongyang, and died soon after being returned to his parents.

“It was important to be here today to sit with defectors who have escaped the most tyrannical regime on the planet and hear their stories, and see the tears in their eyes and also to see the aftermath of the militarism that was once again on display in Pyongyang yesterday with one more military parade,” Mr. Pence said. (He added, however, that he heartily supported Mr. Trump’s desire for a military parade on the streets of Washington.)

At the opening ceremony, White House officials said, Mr. Pence was keenly aware of the optics. They said that if he were ducking a meeting with the North Koreans, he could easily have moved to the box where the American delegation, including Mr. Warmbier, was seated. But that would have set up another resonant image: Mr. Moon in his box with Ms. Kim.

While Mr. Pence chatted with his Japanese and South Korean counterparts, officials noted that the North Koreans sat by themselves, though Mr. Moon made a point of shaking hands with Ms. Kim.

Handshakes — or the lack thereof — have long played an outsize role in diplomacy. In 1954, a year after the end of the Korean War, Secretary of State John Foster Dulles refused to shake the hand of the Chinese premier, Zhou Enlai, at a conference in Geneva. For decades, Mr. Zhou nursed bitterness at the slight — a breach that was only fully healed when President Richard M. Nixon clasped his hand in Beijing in 1972.

Mr. Obama made an art of shaking hands with American rivals: Hugo Chavez of Venezuela and Col. Muammar al-Qaddafi of Libya in 2009; Raúl Castro of Cuba in 2013, at the funeral of Nelson Mandela in South Africa. In 2013, however, Mr. Obama failed to shake hands with President Hassan Rouhani of Iran at the United Nations General Assembly, in a near miss that carried echoes of Mr. Pence’s nonencounter on Friday.

There had been feverish speculation about a meeting, fueled in part by the White House, which made it clear that Mr. Obama would be open to one, if he happened to bump into Mr. Rouhani. In the end, the Iranians balked, worried about the political fallout back home though a few days later, before leaving New York, Mr. Rouhani did telephone Mr. Obama.

Like Mr. Obama, Mr. Pence has one more chance for a history-making encounter, on Saturday. But his aides told reporters that they knew of no plans for a meeting.

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia —  President Obama said on Sunday that he had ordered his senior defense officials to find out whether intelligence reports had been altered to reflect a more optimistic assessment of the American military campaign against the Islamic State.

Speaking at a news conference in Malaysia at the end of a 10-day overseas trip, Mr. Obama said he expected the Pentagon’s inspector general to investigate allegations that significant changes were made to reports from analysts at the United States Central Command, known as Centcom.

“I don’t know what we’ll discover with respect to what was going on in Centcom,” Mr. Obama said. “What I do know is my expectation — which is the highest fidelity to facts, data, the truth.”

Mr. Obama was responding to a report in The New York Times on Sunday that described the internal Pentagon investigation. Some analysts in the Defense Department say their supervisors revised their conclusions about some of the military’s failures before finalizing the reports.

In recent weeks, the Pentagon has expanded its investigation into the allegations and has seized a large trove of emails and documents as it examines the claims. The president said altering reports to make them more optimistic would be contrary to his wishes.

“One of the things I insisted on the day I walked into the Oval Office was that I don’t want intelligence shaded by politics. I don’t want it shaded by a desire to tell a feel-good story,” he said.

He added: “I have made it repeatedly clear to all my top national security advisers that I never want them to hold back, even if the intelligence, or their opinions about the intelligence, their analysis or interpretations of the data, contradict current policy.”

The investigators, as detailed in The Times report, are examining years of intelligence reports by Centcom and comparing them with reports about the same events produced by the Central Intelligence Agency, the Defense Intelligence Agency and others.

Some assessments of the administration’s campaign against the Islamic State in Iraq, for example, have focused on the deep political and religious divides in that country that would be difficult to bridge. Meanwhile, the official picture from Centcom was generally more upbeat, The Times reported.

Mr. Obama was careful to say that he did not know “the details about this.” He said there were many times when legitimate disputes existed among different agencies about an intelligence conclusion.

He said such disagreements had to be shared with him in a transparent way.

But he also said he had not felt that the reports he had received about the campaign to fight the Islamic State had been overly optimistic.

“It’s not as if I’ve been receiving wonderfully rosy, glowing portraits of what’s been going on in Iraq and Syria over the last year and a half,” Mr. Obama said, adding: “At my level, at least, we’ve had a pretty cleareyed, sober assessment of where we’ve made real progress and where we have not.

In Washington on Sunday, former Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said he had not seen any evidence of altered intelligence reports during his tenure at the Pentagon, from early 2013 to February of this year.

“Now, that doesn’t mean something couldn’t happen below the secretary of defense’s office,” Mr. Hagel said in an interview on “State of the Union,” on CNN. “You can’t monitor everything.”

Mr. Hagel noted that “conflict between our military on the ground versus different intelligence groups” was nothing new.

Mr. Obama said he would not relent in the fight against the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, and pledged to “take back their land” and “cut off their financing” and “hunt down their leadership” with what he called an intensifying strategy on all fronts.

He repeatedly described the group’s members as little more than thugs with guns who have little or no ability to “strike a mortal blow” against the United States or France.

He rejected the use of the term “mastermind” to describe the man believed to have planned and helped execute the attacks in Paris on Nov. 13. He said the man “got his hands on some fairly conventional weapons, and sadly it turns out if you are willing to die, you can kill a lot of people.”

“The most powerful tool we have to fight ISIL is to say that we’re not afraid,” Mr. Obama said, “to not elevate it, to not somehow buy into their fantasy that they are doing something important.” He called the group merely “a bunch of killers, with good social media.”

Mr. Obama said the world leaders scheduled to arrive in Paris next week for climate talks must demonstrate by their presence that the attacks would not succeed in blocking progress.

“It is absolutely vital for every country, every leader, to send a signal that the viciousness of a handful of killers does not stop the world from doing important business,” he said, pledging that “we are not going to be cowed by the violent, demented actions of a few.”

As he had done all week, Mr. Obama said he was seeking more aggressive action from other nations, including France and Russia, in the military fight against the Islamic State and in the diplomatic effort to end the civil war in Syria.

He said there was “increasing awareness” on the part of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia that the group posed a greater threat to his country than anything else in the region.

Mr. Obama expressed confidence about the ultimate outcome of the military campaign, saying that destroying the Islamic State — with the Russians or without them — is a realistic goal. “It’s going to get done,” he said.

But he returned several times to the idea that Americans must not change the way they treat other people or demand unreasonable legal changes because they are fearful of another attack. He noted that Times Square in New York — not so far from the site of the Sept. 11 attacks — is filled with people.

“They can’t beat us on the battlefield, so they try to terrorize us into being afraid,” Mr. Obama said. “As president, I will not let that happen.”

WASHINGTON —  Determined to defy the stereotype of a weakened short-timer, President Obama is ending 2015 with a series of accomplishments, most notably a nuclear agreement with Iran, an international climate accord, a 12-nation Pacific trade pact, and long-stalled deals on the budget, education and transportation.

But as he begins his final year in office, those achievements have been overshadowed by Americans’ anxiety over terror attacks and the expanding battle with the Islamic State, along with a public perception that Mr. Obama is unable or unwilling to channel the nation’s fears.

Mr. Obama has the lowest rating of his presidency for terrorism, with 37 percent approving of the way he has handled the issue, according to a national survey by the Pew Research Center. Fifty-seven percent disapprove, even as terrorism has catapulted to the top of the public’s list of concerns.

In a news conference at the White House on Friday before leaving for a two-week vacation, Mr. Obama tried for a fourth time in 14 days to reassure a nervous nation. He urged people to stay vigilant and to refuse to be terrorized by remaining united “as one American family.”

“Squeezing ISIL’s heart at its core in Syria and Iraq will make it harder for them to pump their terror and propaganda to the rest of the world,” Mr. Obama said, using an alternative acronym for the Islamic State. He added that “our counterterrorism, intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement communities are working 24/7 to protect our homeland.”

Hours later, as Mr. Obama and his family headed to Hawaii, he made a stopover in San Bernardino, Calif., where he and the first lady, Michelle Obama, met with family members of those killed in the Dec. 2 shootings, and many of the emergency responders.

“You had people from every background, every faith; some described their loved ones who had come to this country as immigrants, others who had lived in the area all of their lives,” Mr. Obama told reporters after meeting with the families in a library at Indian Springs High School, saying their diversity was “so representative of this country.”

“As difficult as this time is for them and for the entire community,” he added, “they’re also representative of the strength and the unity and the love that exists in this community and in this country.”

In the case of the San Bernardino massacre, the president has had to calibrate his response even more carefully, sounding familiar themes about the importance of gun control but also speaking to Americans’ fears about the threat of homegrown terrorism.

“Even as we are vigilant about preventing terrorist attacks from happening, even as we insist that we can’t accept the notion of mass shootings in public places and places of work and worship, we have to remind ourselves of the overwhelming good that exists out there,” Mr. Obama said. The families, he added, “could not have been more inspiring and more proud of their loved ones or more insistent that something good comes out of this tragedy.”

Mr. Obama, in private meetings a year ago, vowed to wring every ounce of progress out of his remaining tenure and admonished his staff not to be discouraged by Republican congressional victories. His success in the past 12 months, both overseas and at home, defied expectations that gridlock in Washington and the presidential campaign would derail his plans.

But few seem to have noticed. The president’s overall job rating has hardly budged in the last year, the Pew survey found. The president’s job approval is at 46 percent even as Mr. Obama has claimed progress on economic and domestic issues, which the public now rates as less important.

“They didn’t resonate out there in any way,” William M. Daley, a former chief of staff for Mr. Obama, said of the president’s accomplishments this year.

Mr. Daley said most Americans viewed negotiating a budget deal or a transportation funding bill as a basic responsibility of government. “Yeah, we don’t have a shutdown,” he said, “but that’s like asking for credit for just doing a job.”

The president and his aides have long been frustrated by a political and media environment that they view as too focused on trivial, short-term matters. One senior White House official said Mr. Obama and his aides had reached “the acceptance phase,” recognizing that even significant accomplishments were unlikely to break through. But White House officials said the president remained focused on chipping away at his priority list in the next year.

Mr. Daley said the president had “a hard time emoting” about the terror threat because he tried to avoid the kind of bellicose rhetoric coming from the Republican presidential candidates.

But Senator Tim Kaine, a Virginia Democrat, said there was a downside to that. He said that while Mr. Obama was traveling in Asia immediately after the Paris attacks, the president and his staff missed a chance to connect with Americans on their fears about terrorism, and instead criticized lawmakers and others for focusing blame on Syrian refugees.

“They didn’t acknowledge the fear,” Mr. Kaine said in an interview. “They instead pushed back on the suggestion that the refugees were responsible.”

He added that the president was right to rebuke those who want to keep Syrian refugees out the country, but “there was a moment where they should have said, ‘O.K., people are afraid, we understand that.’ ”

Carroll J. Doherty, the director of political research at Pew, said Mr. Obama’s accomplishments had failed to translate into better approval ratings in large part because they were either too obscure to grab public notice or so controversial — the Iran deal, for example — that they sparked a polarized reaction.

“Many of the accomplishments he’s touting are not very high-visibility issues, or they are very divisive,” Mr. Doherty said.

At the same time, he said, Mr. Obama has been unable to shake the perception that his response to national security threats has been weak. The share of Americans who believe the government is doing a good job reducing the threat of terrorism has fallen sharply this year, from 72 percent to 46 percent, the lowest point since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.

“He gets bipartisan criticism on terrorism, including among conservative and moderate Democrats,” Mr. Doherty said. “This is now Topic A for Americans, and this critique that he’s not tough enough has persisted and grown.”

At the White House, advisers say they are pleased that Mr. Obama has at least avoided lame duck status.

“He focuses on enacting policy, and he doesn’t worry about polls and the news cycle,” said Phil Schiliro, who served as the president’s chief legislative aide early in his first term. The president’s view, he added, is “that politics will sort itself out.”

Like the Iran deal, the climate accord engenders deep opposition among Republicans, but Mr. Obama has also managed to forge some unlikely alliances with Republicans on the domestic front. Last week’s budget deal makes permanent one of his top priorities: providing tax credits to children and the poor that will help an estimated 16 million people emerge from poverty.

Mr. Kaine said that in the last year, Mr. Obama and his aides had become better at working with adversaries to get things done on Capitol Hill. Mr. Kaine compared it to white-water rafting. “You can fight the current all you want, but you aren’t going to make any headway,” he said. “The best white-water kayakers go with the current. I think the White House has finally figured that out.”

Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, said the approach had been central to the bargaining that yielded the first education policy rewrite in more than a decade, a law known as the Every Student Succeeds Act. Mr. Obama called the bipartisan cooperation a “Christmas miracle” when he signed the act into law this month.

Mr. Alexander recalled that the president had invited him to travel aboard Air Force One to Knoxville, Tenn., in February for an event on education policy, and while on the trip, the senator asked Mr. Obama not to threaten to veto the education rewrite as it was taking shape.

“He was good to his word,” Mr. Alexander said.

JERUSALEM — Even before Secretary of State John Kerry issued his scathing critique of Israeli policies on Wednesday, President-elect Donald J. Trump essentially told Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to ignore it.

“Stay strong Israel,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter. “January 20th is fast approaching!”

Mr. Netanyahu responded warmly. “President-elect Trump, thank you for your warm friendship and your clear-cut support for Israel!” he wrote, adding Israeli and American flag emojis.

Mr. Kerry’s much-anticipated Middle East speech brought together four giant personalities representing two radically divergent worldviews in one momentous clash.

On one side was Mr. Kerry, venting years of frustration on behalf of President Obama and himself at what they consider Israeli intransigence.

On the other were Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Trump, firing back at what they deemed a hypocritical betrayal of America’s closest friend in the Middle East.

If Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry were playing for history, Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Trump were playing for time.

The departing administration intended for the speech to lay out a path to peace that they had tried to take, hoping to salvage some scrap of a legacy on the issue. The incoming administration and its Israeli ally were busy counting the days until the old team will be swept from the stage and a new Israeli-American alignment redefines the politics of the region.

Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry have painted Israel into a corner, providing ammunition to its critics and effectively isolating it on the world stage after a United Nations Security Council resolution last week criticizing Israeli settlements and the secretary’s sharp assessment on Wednesday. But in three weeks, Mr. Netanyahu expects unstinting support from Mr. Trump, who so far appears to be promising it.

Amid the harsh exchanges was the increasing sense that the two-state solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict favored by much of the world no longer seems plausible, at least for now. When Mr. Kerry outlined six principles for a final land-for-peace agreement, he largely tracked longstanding American orthodoxy. But unlike when President Bill Clinton did something similar 16 years ago, it sounded more like a requiem than a plan.

“The positions he lays out are well known to all of us,” said Michael Herzog, a member of the Israeli negotiating team during the latest round of failed talks, led by Mr. Kerry in 2014. “There were no major surprises. The question is, does it really matter?”

Indeed, among the blaring, polarized responses to Mr. Kerry’s speech, the one conclusion that drew agreement across political lines was that the two-state solution may be all but buried.

“This will go down in history as an eloquently delivered eulogy to the two-state formula, which is in itself a recipe for disaster,” said Oded Revivi, the chief foreign envoy of the Yesha Council, which represents Israeli settlers.

“John Kerry just gave an eloquent eulogy for the two-state solution,” said Ali Abunimah, a Palestinian-American activist who helped found the Electronic Intifada, a website focused on the Palestinian side of the conflict.

While Mr. Netanyahu still formally supports a two-state solution, few believe his heart is in it, and voices on the far sides of the conflict are increasingly talking about a one-state solution, albeit one conceived in starkly different ways.

From his right flank, Mr. Netanyahu faces calls within his coalition to give up the two-state formula and instead annex parts of the West Bank. From the other side, some Palestinians now advocate a single state from the Mediterranean Sea to the Jordan River in which everyone has an equal vote, knowing that Palestinians would ultimately outnumber Jewish citizens in such a country.

The rift between Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump may further polarize a debate that has divided the world for decades. With such a harsh assessment by the departing Obama administration, Israel has for the moment lost its staunchest defender in the international arena, and its critics may feel emboldened to press for more action against it in the form of sanctions, boycotts or legal cases.

Conversely, the impending arrival of Mr. Trump and his unqualified support for Israel have already inspired the Israeli right to press for more aggressive policies that would move the country even further from compromise. After nearly eight years with Mr. Obama, Mr. Netanyahu for the first time may feel little or no American pressure to make concessions.

The status quo in the meantime is an uneasy coexistence with no obvious resolution in the near term.

Palestinians live under military occupation surrounded by miles of walls and fences. Israelis build more homes for themselves while their forces raid communities, control movement through checkpoints and respond to provocations with decisive force.

Israelis live under the constant threat of terrorism, enduring sometimes daily assaults by attackers wielding knives or driving cars into crowds. The Palestinian authorities venerate such “martyrs” and compensate their families financially.

It is against that backdrop that the struggle of the four major figures in the twilight of an expiring presidency has played out in recent days and weeks. Underlying it was a deep divide over who was to blame for the long impasse in this part of the world.

Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry, while careful to call on the Palestinians to curb terrorism and incitement, seem to save most of their emotional energy for denouncing Mr. Netanyahu, who has come to grate on both of them. To the extent that the United States has presented itself as an honest broker in the conflict over the years, Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry are viewed by many in Jerusalem as tilted to the Palestinian cause, despite the $38 billion they pledged to Israel’s defense over the next 10 years.

Mr. Netanyahu has reacted to the United Nations resolution and Mr. Kerry’s speech as if they were “a declaration of war,” a phrase he reportedly used before the Security Council vote last week in trying to persuade New Zealand to drop the measure. Mr. Trump, after initially saying he wanted to be a neutral figure in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, has thrown in his lot with Mr. Netanyahu, especially since the election, perhaps encouraging the prime minister to castigate the departing president and secretary.

“Israelis do not need to be lectured about the importance of peace by foreign leaders,” Mr. Netanyahu said after Mr. Kerry’s speech.

Still, some of Mr. Netanyahu’s domestic critics said he had brought this on himself. Former Prime Minister Ehud Barak wrote on Twitter that most of the world and Israel agreed with Mr. Kerry.

“Bibi, on verge of messianic abyss, determined to go forward,” he added, using Mr. Netanyahu’s nickname.

Reactions to Mr. Kerry divided along similar lines, only in reverse. Miri Regev, a hard-line minister in Mr. Netanyahu’s cabinet, told an Israeli news outlet that Mr. Kerry’s speech “gives hope to the terror organizations to eliminate Israel step by step.” She also challenged the secretary to propose “having Washington divided” as he proposes to divide Jerusalem.

The final break between Mr. Kerry and Mr. Netanyahu — and their patrons, Mr. Obama and Mr. Trump — came after years of conversations that never led to the accord the secretary sought.

Mr. Kerry made a point of talking with Mr. Netanyahu often, more than was publicly known, hoping to build a relationship that would enable them to bridge their ideological differences. But Mr. Netanyahu never viewed it as in his interest, or in Israel’s, to go along with the American interloper.

After all the stormy exchanges and recriminations, the remaining question is where Mr. Trump’s alliance with Mr. Netanyahu will lead. Mr. Trump fashions himself a deal maker, and this would be the ultimate deal.

Having embraced one side of the conflict so avowedly, could he craft a mutually acceptable bargain where Mr. Obama and Mr. Kerry failed? Would he deem it in his interest to try? And would Mr. Netanyahu want him to?

As Mr. Trump put it, Jan. 20 is fast approaching.