ROSEBURG, Ore. —  President Obama on Friday flew into this mill town buffeted by the mass shooting at a community college to give solace to grieving families, but politics and two more deadly shootings on college campuses threatened to intrude.

“I’ve got some very strong feelings about this because when you talk to these families, you’re reminded that this could be happening to your child, or your mom, or your dad, or your relative, or your friend,” said Mr. Obama, standing next to Gov. Kate Brown of Oregon and Mayor Larry Rich of Roseburg. “And so we’re going to have to come together as a country to see how we can prevent these issues from taking place.”

Several hundred people stood outside the gates of the Roseburg airport. Some held signs and American flags, but most just held cellphones to record the passage of the presidential motorcade — rarely seen in this hilly, green area.

Many of the signs proclaimed, “Welcome Obama,” but others were more pointed, and referred to his desire for more gun control. “Gun-free Zones Are for Sitting Ducks,” said one. Another: “Nothing Trumps Our Liberty.” And one said simply, “Obama is Wrong.”

The Obama administration is reconsidering some administrative actions to tighten control over gun sales, including one that would define anyone who sells many guns at gun shows or online as a commercial seller, requiring that they perform background checks on potential buyers before completing any transaction. The measure would at least partly close what is widely known as the “gun-show loophole.”

Last week, Christopher Harper-Mercer brought six guns and spare ammunition to Umpqua Community College here and systematically shot and killed nine people and injured nine others. Hours after the attack, a visibly angry Mr. Obama stood at the White House and delivered a blistering lecture on the dangers of guns and the need for legislative limits on them. He said that thoughts and prayers — the usual expressions of grief — were not enough in the face of such a massacre, and he promised to politicize the issue for the rest of his presidency.

And on Friday, two more college shootings — one at Northern Arizona University and another at Texas Southern University that together left two dead and four injured — provided him the opportunity to hammer home his points.

But in addition to being the nation’s most powerful politician, Mr. Obama is also its chief official mourner, so he had to seek a balance in a rural town where guns are popular.

The trip to Roseburg was added to Mr. Obama’s schedule on Monday and, in an obvious nod to local sentiment, the White House said his meetings with grieving families would be private.

No speech. No politics. Just shared grief.

It was part of a long process of evolution for the president, who has gradually put action over grief.

On Jan. 12, 2011, Mr. Obama spoke about the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords, Democrat of Arizona, and 17 others four days earlier and said that it was time “for us to pause for a moment and make sure that we’re talking with each other in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds.”

In July 2012, two days after a gunman walked into a movie theater near Denver and killed 12, Mr. Obama said his “main task was to serve as a representative of the entire country and let them know that we are thinking about them at this moment.”

And two days after the shooting of 26 people, mostly children, at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., Mr. Obama said, “These tragedies must end, and to end them, we must change.”

Just hours after the shooting in Roseburg, Mr. Obama quickly set grief aside. “This is a political choice that we make to allow this to happen every few months in America,” he said in an unusually abrupt and often angry speech.

But last week’s rampage has actually tightened the embrace of guns for many here.

Some prominent residents, including the publisher of a local weekly newspaper, said Mr. Obama was not welcome. The language got so angry that on Tuesday, the mayor and other city officials put out a statement saying they welcomed Mr. Obama and “will extend him every courtesy.”

That was evident when the governor, Ms. Brown, greeted Mr. Obama at the airport. As his motorcade sped through town, an unusual number of people along the side of the road waved pleasantly.

Then Mr. Obama met with the victims’ families in the arts building of Roseburg High School, where flowers had been placed beside trees in a school courtyard.

After nearly an hour with the families, Mr. Obama offered federal assistance to help the community “heal from this loss.”

In barely audible remarks he then said something had to be done, before quickly turning back to expressions of grief and support.

“But today, it’s about the families and their grief, and the love we feel for them,” he said. “And they surely do appreciate all the support that they’ve received.”

WASHINGTON — For President Obama, it was a day of celebration. He had just signed the most important domestic measure of his presidency, his health care program. So when Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel arrived at the White House for a hastily arranged visit, it was likely not the main thing on his mind.

To White House officials, it was a show of respect to make time for Mr. Netanyahu on that day back in March 2010. But Mr. Netanyahu did not see it that way. He felt squeezed in, not accorded the rituals of such a visit. No photographers were invited to record the moment. “That wasn’t a good way to treat me,” he complained to an American afterward.

The tortured relationship between Barack and Bibi, as they call each other, has been a story of crossed signals, misunderstandings, slights perceived and real. Burdened by mistrust, divided by ideology, the leaders of the United States and Israel talked past each other for years until the rupture over Mr. Obama’s push for a nuclear agreement with Iran led to the spectacle of Mr. Netanyahu denouncing the president’s efforts before a joint meeting of Congress.

As Mr. Netanyahu arrives at the White House on Monday for his first visit in more than a year, both leaders have reasons to put the past behind them. They will discuss a new security agreement and ways to counter Iran.

But few believe their relationship can ever be more than coolly transactional. Undergirding their personal disconnect are different world views. Mr. Obama sees Mr. Netanyahu as captured by a hard-line philosophy that blocks progress. Mr. Netanyahu considers Mr. Obama hopelessly naïve about one of the world’s most volatile neighborhoods.

“They have a fraught relationship and it’s fueled by a belief on the part of both of them that the other is trying to screw them, trip them up, thwart their policies, corner them, ambush them,” said Martin Indyk, the president’s former special envoy to the Middle East. “They each have a number of cases where they feel the other acted in bad faith.”

Uzi Arad, Mr. Netanyahu’s former national security adviser, said no single issue had caused the rift. “It was a gradual thing that widened over time,” he said. “History will probably say that both leaders mismanaged their relationship. It’s not one party.”

If the current animosity between the United States and Israel is not unique in the history of relations between the two governments, it is the worst in more than two decades. Mr. Netanyahu feels disrespected and misled by a president he thinks does not have Israel’s best interests at heart. Mr. Obama feels aggrieved at being portrayed as anti-Israel even though he has provided extensive security aid and fought Palestinian efforts to seek recognition as a state at the United Nations.

“My sense is they each thought they could get the better of the other,” said Mara Rudman, a former deputy envoy for Middle East peace under Mr. Obama. “They’re competitive. And I don’t know that that sense of competition ever dissipated.”

Yaakov Amidror, another former national security adviser to Mr. Netanyahu, said the differences lay more in the substance than their personalities. “I’m not saying there are no personal issues — for sure, at the end of the day, they are human beings,” he said. “But it is much more about how we evaluate the situation than how we evaluate each other.”

Given their vastly different positions, friction between the liberal Democrat and the conservative Likud leader was inevitable. But it was exacerbated by choices along the way.

Friends and critics say Mr. Obama was never adequately attuned to the sensitivities of the alliance. Not known for warm relations with foreign leaders, Mr. Obama had difficulty understanding why Mr. Netanyahu would not trust him, and made certain decisions worse by not preparing the Israeli leader for what he was going to do.

Mr. Netanyahu, for his part, chose the most incendiary interpretations of Mr. Obama’s policies, preferring to express outrage instead of emphasizing common ground, according to his own advisers. His suspicions were fanned by visiting Republican lawmakers and conservative patrons, like the casino mogul Sheldon Adelson, who had their own complaints about the president.

When they talk — and they have not spoken since a phone call in July — the conversations are robust and pointed. Mr. Netanyahu makes points bluntly, restraining where possible what his former ambassador, Michael Oren, described in a memoir as a “monumental rage capable, it sounded, of cracking a telephone receiver.” Mr. Obama is more reserved but may come off as condescending and rarely lets a point go unrebutted.

A phone call between them can last up to 90 minutes. “They like debating each other, to an extent,” said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the president’s deputy national security adviser.

After all, they have done it a lot.

Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu first met in 2007 when their aides hastily arranged a chat at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, in a janitor’s office. Mr. Netanyahu, then in the opposition, was heading home and Mr. Obama, running for president, was returning from the campaign trail. They “actually had chemistry,” Mr. Rhodes said.

Mr. Netanyahu was impressed. “He’s got it, he can beat Hillary,” he told advisers afterward, according to Mr. Arad, referring to Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was also seeking the Democratic nomination.

They met again, in July 2008, when Mr. Obama had secured the Democratic nomination and was visiting Jerusalem. The day before, a Palestinian had rammed a bulldozer into Israelis at a bus stop. After talking about security, Mr. Netanyahu suggested they walk to the attack site. Mr. Obama demurred, seeing it as showmanship.

Once he was president, Mr. Obama made obtaining a Middle East peace agreement a priority, announcing the appointment of former Senator George J. Mitchell as special envoy two days after taking office. “I really want to try to do something here,” Mr. Mitchell recalled the president telling him.

As a start, Mr. Obama decided to press Israel to freeze settlement construction in the occupied West Bank. Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff, urged a strong stand saying otherwise Mr. Netanyahu, now prime minister, would “walk all over us,” as Mrs. Clinton, then the secretary of state, put it in her memoir.

The decision was included in a White House briefing paper without asking Mr. Mitchell first. Mr. Mitchell supported the idea. But others did not.

“My advice was not to do it,” recalled James B. Cunningham, then ambassador to Israel. “It didn’t seem to me to be the right way to start building a relationship.”

When Mr. Netanyahu came to Washington in May 2009, he felt blindsided by the demand. Emerging from nearly two hours alone with Mr. Obama, the prime minister “looked ashen,” Mr. Arad said, from “the direct body blow.”

The tension grew when Mr. Obama gave a speech in Cairo reaching out to the Muslim world but did not also visit Israel. While he urged Muslims to recognize Israel’s legitimacy, he seemed to justify it because of the Holocaust rather than centuries of Jewish roots in the region.

“One of the mistakes frankly was when he went to Cairo, he should have gone to Israel at the same time,” Mr. Mitchell said.

At the heart of the trouble, according to Dennis B. Ross, another former American special envoy, was a decision by Mr. Obama that he needed to establish distance from Israel to build credibility in the Arab world.

In his new book, “Doomed to Succeed,” and in an interview, Mr. Ross said Mr. Obama had told Jewish leaders that he would not continue President George W. Bush’s policy of allowing “no daylight” between the United States and Israel. Mr. Ross attributed this to Malcolm Hoenlein, chief executive of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.

In an interview last week, Mr. Hoenlein described the Jewish leaders’ meeting with Mr. Obama. “I said, ‘The lesson of history is there shouldn’t be daylight between the two countries because their enemies will exploit it,’” he recalled. “He said, ‘Eight years, no daylight. Eight years, no progress.’”

Mr. Ross argues that distancing from Israel has never generated the Arab cooperation that presidents expect. But aides said Mr. Obama simply believed in honestly airing differences, not creating distance. “This was not the guiding basis of our policy,” Mr. Rhodes said. “The guiding basis was to be energetic for a two-state solution.”

Either way, the settlement freeze became the defining issue. Mr. Netanyahu finally agreed to a 10-month moratorium, but when Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. visited Israel in March 2010, he was caught off guard by the announcement of a new housing project  in East Jerusalem. Mr. Netanyahu assured him it was done without his knowledge but Mr. Obama was furious, leading to the tense meeting at the White House, without the photographs, a session made worse by exaggerated stories of shabby behavior in Israeli news media.

The Palestinians resisted talks until three weeks before the freeze was to expire and Mr. Netanyahu refused to extend it. The process collapsed before really beginning.

Disillusioned, Mr. Mitchell resigned, convinced that Washington had let the settlement issue become too central. “My own view is the failure was not one of policy but clearly articulating a policy,” he said last month. “We did not do a good job of explaining that our request for a settlement freeze was not a precondition for negotiating.”

Mr. Netanyahu’s conviction that Mr. Obama did not understand the Middle East was reinforced by the Arab Spring uprisings, particularly the ouster of President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt. He had been a friend of the Israelis, who were appalled at what they saw as “our throwing Mubarak under the bus,” said Mr. Cunningham, the former American ambassador. “It was kind of a shock to them.”

Ties grew frostier when, the day before a Netanyahu visit, Mr. Obama gave a speech trying to revive the peace process and endorsing the prevailing borders before the 1967 Arab-Israeli war as the basis of a deal, along with mutually agreed land swaps. When the Israeli leader landed in Washington, Mr. Oren said he “saw fire in Netanyahu’s eyes.”

Mr. Obama told Mr. Netanyahu his position was not meaningfully different from previous American policy, and emphasized the land swaps. But when reporters were allowed into the Oval Office, Mr. Netanyahu sternly lectured Mr. Obama in front of the cameras. Mr. Netanyahu felt emboldened; Mr. Obama felt burned.

Benefit of the doubt was gone. When President Nicolas Sarkozy of France was overheard calling Mr. Netanyahu a liar, Mr. Obama replied, “You’re fed up with him, but I have to deal with him even more often than you.”

The relationship further deteriorated during the 2012 presidential race when Mr. Obama’s Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, traveled to Jerusalem and Mr. Netanyahu embraced him. But the president’s victory ushered in a thaw; he helped broker a truce to fighting in Gaza that fall and decided to make Israel the first foreign destination of his second term, even without tangible progress to justify it.

“Several of us were arguing we have to wait for the moment,” recalled Mr. Rhodes. “He said, ‘I just need to go to Israel because we can’t simply wait for all the stars to align.’”

The visit in March 2013 became “the high-water mark in their relationship,” according to Mr. Rhodes. Mr. Obama spoke Hebrew, quoted the Talmud and visited the grave of Theodor Herzl, the father of modern Zionism. He charmed Sara Netanyahu, the prime minister’s wife, at a private dinner and held her chair out at the public state dinner. Mr. Netanyahu responded by settling a dispute with Turkey at Mr. Obama’s request.

Several months later, John Kerry, who had succeeded Mrs. Clinton as secretary of state, surprised Mr. Obama by persuading the Israelis and Palestinians to agree to negotiations.

“I’m more pessimistic than all of you,” the president told the negotiators, according to Mr. Indyk. For good reason. The new process eventually collapsed just like the first.

Then came Mr. Obama’s decision not to follow through on threats of airstrikes against Syria if it was found to use chemical weapons. When it did, he instead struck a deal to eliminate Syria’s chemical arsenal.

Arguably, it was a better result for Israel since it removed a threat. But Israelis saw irresolution: If Mr. Obama would not keep his word to punish Syria, they feared he would not use force to stop Iran from gaining a nuclear bomb if necessary.

As it turned out, the United States had been conducting secret talks with Iran brokered by Oman. “What the Americans did is try to deceive us,” said Mr. Amidror, the former security adviser. “They didn’t tell us about Oman. That was not the turning point, but it gave those who still had some trust in America a very good reason to go to the other side.”

Mr. Netanyahu was outraged. “He was shouting at Kerry, out of control,” Mr. Indyk recalled. Publicly, the Israeli leader called an interim nuclear deal a “historic mistake.” Mr. Obama called with reassurances to no avail.

Mr. Ross, who had left government, visited the prime minister during the call with the president. After hanging up, Mr. Netanyahu said Mr. Obama had indicated that domestic politics ruled out the use of force and therefore required a deal.

“I told Bibi, ‘No way did he say that, no way,’” Mr. Ross recalled. “I’m convinced they just talked past each other.”

Susan E. Rice, the president’s national security adviser, was angered by Mr. Netanyahu’s belligerence. She later told Abraham H. Foxman, now the national director emeritus of the Anti-Defamation League, that Mr. Netanyahu did everything but “use the N-word” to describe the president. Mr. Foxman interpreted that as hyperbole not an accusation of racism.

In the midst of his own re-election campaign last winter, Mr. Netanyahu challenged the president in his address to Congress. Mr. Netanyahu saw Washington’s hand in Israeli politics when a former Obama adviser helped an Israeli opposition group. Mr. Obama was angered by the prime minister’s election-eve statements that there would be no Palestinian state during his tenure and warning about Arab Israeli voters tilting the elections.

Mr. Netanyahu walked back the comments. But Mr. Obama has since told Jewish leaders that he too has given up on a two-state settlement on his watch. “He said he knows he’s not going to have a Palestinian state in his term, but he will help set the stage for it,” Mr. Hoenlein recalled.

In those meetings, Mr. Obama expressed distress. “He bore his soul about how much he cares about Israel,” Mr. Foxman said. “It was painful, hurtful. ‘I care about Israel, I love Israel.’” Why did Mr. Netanyahu not understand?

With the Iran deal finalized, the two sides have talked about moving on. But it will not be easy, as was made clear last week when Mr. Netanyahu appointed a diplomacy chief who had accused Mr. Obama of anti-Semitism.

“There’s a lot of water under the bridge,” Mr. Indyk said, “and it’s very hard to imagine they can do anything but paper over their differences at this point for the sake of common interests.”

WASHINGTON — K. T. McFarland, who was a deputy national security adviser in the Trump administration and then was picked to serve as ambassador to Singapore, withdrew her ambassadorial nomination on Friday after it had stalled in the Senate.

Ms. McFarland’s nomination had become embroiled in the controversy over the Trump campaign’s contacts with Russian officials, with some senators left wondering if she had answered questions deceptively when asked if she knew of discussions between Michael T. Flynn, the former national security adviser, and a Russian ambassador.

“Unfortunately, some Democrats chose to play politics rather than move forward with a qualified nominee for a critically important post,” President Trump said in a statement released Friday by the White House. “I wish K. T. the best as she uses her considerable wisdom and skill as a commentator to explain to the American people how to make American foreign policy great again.”

Senate Republicans could have approved her nomination unilaterally, but the fact that it was never brought to a vote suggested that she had made even some of them uneasy.

Ms. McFarland was a member of the Trump transition team and then became Mr. Flynn’s deputy on the National Security Council, where she ruffled feathers with her intense partisanship.

In one meeting of the council, which sees itself as apolitical, she bragged to staff members that she was wearing shoes from Ivanka Trump’s brand. In another, she told the assembled career staff members, most of whom had been in the same roles during the Obama administration, that they needed to “make America great again.”

Mr. Flynn’s successor, Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, pushed Ms. McFarland out in an effort to return the council to a traditional professional operation. Her nomination as ambassador to Singapore was seen as an effort to reward her loyalty.

But in July, she was questioned in writing by Senator Cory Booker, Democrat of New Jersey, on whether she had ever spoken with Mr. Flynn, before Mr. Trump took office, about Mr. Flynn’s contacts with Sergey I. Kislyak, who was then the Russian ambassador to Washington.

In her response to Mr. Booker, Ms. McFarland sidestepped an answer, writing, “I am not aware of any of the issues or events described above.”

When an email later surfaced showing that Ms. McFarland had been aware of a crucial Dec. 29, 2016, phone call between Mr. Flynn and Mr. Kislyak, questions were raised about her honesty.

Mr. Flynn pleaded guilty last year to lying to F.B.I. agents about his interactions with Mr. Kislyak.

Ms. McFarland, who formerly served as a commentator on Fox News, has long been controversial. When she ran in 2006 for the United States Senate seat then held by Hillary Clinton, Ms. McFarland was found to have made multiple exaggerations about her résumé. Her opponent in the Republican primary race, John Spencer, routinely pointed out that Ms. McFarland had once claimed that helicopters were spying on her at Mrs. Clinton’s request. (Ms. McFarland said she was joking.)

I have no idea if Oprah Winfrey could be president. I have no idea if she should be president. I certainly have no idea why she might want the demotion. (Can you really get used to “President Winfrey” after earning pop culture’s highest title, the mononym?)

But anybody who does run for president could do worse than to study her speech at Sunday night’s Golden Globes.

Ms. Winfrey’s speech accepting the Cecil B. DeMille Award for lifetime achievement was directly about the #MeToo movement and the arc of civil rights struggles. But with its talk of “tyrants” and “history” and “a new day,” it had the music and lyrics of the kind of acceptance speech that ends with a balloon drop.

The moment has inspired a mini “Oprah 2020” boomlet of speculation in political media. Even NBC saluted Ms. Winfrey with a tweet, since deleted: “Nothing but respect for OUR future president.” (You’d think the home of “The Apprentice” might want to recuse itself from the future-president business by now.)

After a year with a reality-TV ratings junkie in symbiosis with “Fox & Friends,” there are many reasons to wonder about a turn to another television star. Is politics becoming permanently celebritized? Do we want the presidency to become the ultimate Cecil B. DeMille Award?

But to argue that Ms. Winfrey should run for president — or shouldn’t — simply because she’s a celebrity oversimplifies the issue. Most celebrities would make terrible candidates. (No offense, Kid Rock.) The real consideration here is why Ms. Winfrey is a celebrity, and all those qualifications were on display in that speech.

It’s a master’s stage performance. It builds from kitchen confession to mountaintop thunder. It shifts perspective cinematically — close in on young Ms. Winfrey sitting on the linoleum floor, pull back to a panorama of America. It uses preacherly rhythms and even cliffhangers (“a young worker by the name of … Rosa Parks”).

But above all, it’s a story. And it’s a story about stories. It moves from the personal (young Ms. Winfrey watching Sidney Poitier win an Oscar) to the communal (women in Hollywood, and women working on farms and even “some pretty phenomenal men”). It links “your truth” and “absolute truth.” It tells the audience: I have my struggle, and I know you have yours, and that connects us all in the sweep of a global struggle.

Conventional politicians can do that too, though it’s not easy or common. Barack Obama was no one’s idea of a shoo-in when he announced his campaign. But he synthesized his biography (as the “kid with a funny name”), his country’s current struggles and an idea of generational social progress into one evocative narrative — change.

People are drawn to stories for a reason: In politics as in art, they say more than a list of bullet points.

In 2008, John McCain’s campaign tried to turn the young senator’s crowd appeal against him, with an attack ad that sneered, “He’s the biggest celebrity in the world,” juxtaposing Mr. Obama with Britney Spears and Paris Hilton. The language and images cast his “celebrity” as slight, unserious — and, unsubtly, feminine. But then, what celebrities do well is what politicians aspire to: They make themselves the protagonists of a story their followers want to share in.

That’s powerful. Of course, powerful is another word for dangerous. One danger of TV savvy as a political tool is that it makes politics about delivering whatever agitation keeps the red camera light on. It can be an emotional machine-gun for demagogues, obliterating rational argument.

If she were to run, Ms. Winfrey might be a more old-fashioned celebrity candidate than Mr. Trump. Her brand is about empathy and consensus, the model of 20th-century big-tent daytime TV. Pundits were talking about the “Oprahfication” of politics way back in the feel-your-pain presidency of Bill Clinton.

Mr. Trump’s brand, on the other hand, is about confrontation and us-vs.-them. This had been a tack of protest candidates like Pat Buchanan (star of “Crossfire”), but it became a more feasible path to victory in the polarized America of 2016. In TV terms, she’s a broadcaster (despite now having a cable network), he’s a niche programmer (despite having been on NBC).

It would be something to see how “You get a car!” fares against “You’re fired!” should it ever come to that. Ms. Winfrey would bring her own vast following, helpfully overlapping Democratic base groups including African Americans and women.

Ms. Winfrey would bring TV baggage, too, including having used her talk show as a platform for self-help panaceas. (Mr. Trump has his “truthful hyperbole” and “alternative facts”; she has the dream-it-and-you-can-be-it mantra of “The Secret.”) She gave the world Dr. Mehmet Oz, who in the 2016 campaign let Mr. Trump flash a piece of paper on his program and declare himself in big-league health.

Whether or not America needs Oprah, though, “Oprahesque” is not a terrible goal for a politician to aim for. The ability to captivate an audience does not itself pass legislation or make disarmament deals. But it’s not nothing. Elections are contests of stories. Scoff at the idea of Oprah 2020, if you will. But if you’re looking for your own path to 2020, you might just want to look under your seat.

WASHINGTON — For several decades, a consensus has grown that reining in the United States’ $3.2 trillion annual medical bill begins with changing the way doctors are paid: Instead of compensating them for every appointment, service and procedure, they should be paid based on the quality of their care.

The Obama administration used the authority of the Affordable Care Act to aggressively advance this idea, but many doctors chafed at the scope and speed of its experiments to change the way Medicare pays for everything from primary care to cancer treatment. Now, the Trump administration is siding with doctors — making a series of regulatory changes that slow or shrink some of these initiatives and let many doctors delay adopting the new system.

The efforts to chip away at mandatory payment programs have attracted far less attention than attempts by President Trump and congressional Republicans to dismantle the Affordable Care Act, but they have the potential to affect far more people, because private insurers tend to follow what Medicare does. That in turn affects the country’s ability to deal with soaring health care costs that have pushed up insurance premiums and deductibles.

The administration has proposed canceling or shrinking Medicare initiatives that required doctors to accept lump sums for cardiac care and joint replacements, two of Medicare’s biggest cost drivers. More than 1,100 hospitals were scheduled to take part in the cardiac initiative starting in January, and 800 have been participating in the joint replacement program.

And while Congress passed a bipartisan law in 2015 creating a new payment framework that is supposed to reward doctors for value over volume, Mr. Trump’s Department of Health and Human Services has exempted more doctors from a provision that created merit pay by giving them bonuses or penalties depending on the quality of their work.

In September, the department released an outline of a “new direction” for the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation, set up by the Affordable Care Act to test models aimed at improving medical care and reducing costs. While the Obama administration had pushed large, mandatory experiments to test new models of pay, the Trump administration wants to encourage smaller, voluntary programs — and has asked the doctors to help design them.

“Clearly a great big foot has been put on the brake,” said Donald Crane, the chief executive of CAPG, a group of doctors and hospital administrators that, unlike many in the profession, has pushed to tie physician pay to quality measures rather than the old model of fee for service.

Mr. Crane was referring specifically to the scaling back of the cardiac and joint replacement programs by Tom Price, an orthopedic surgeon and Republican former congressman chosen by Mr. Trump as secretary of health and human services. Mr. Price, who resigned in September over his use of expensive private jets, had accused the Obama administration of trying to “commandeer clinical decision-making” by forcing doctors to participate in experiments that test new ways of paying for care. Mr. Trump is said to be close to appointing a successor — possibly Alex Azar, a former pharmaceutical company executive who worked in the Department of Health and Human Services under President George W. Bush — and doctors’ groups will be watching carefully to see if the agency continues in the same direction.

Already, other administration officials have signaled support for protecting doctors and giving them more say. The agency’s Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, led by Seema Verma, has suggested it will accept more recommendations than it did in the past from a committee of doctors formed by the American Medical Association on how much Medicare should pay for services and procedures — essentially letting doctors set their own pay.

Ms. Verma’s agency also issued the call for changing the direction of the innovation center. The formal “request for information” proposed, among other potential changes, allowing doctors and hospitals to contract directly with Medicare patients. This would allow doctors and other providers to propose their own prices, moving toward a long-held Republican goal of so-called premium pricing.

Research has shown that the traditional model of paying doctors, known as “fee for service,” often results in unnecessary or inappropriate care. The federal government has been slowly moving away from it since 1983, when Medicare changed some of its payments to hospitals.

But the changes now pushed by H.H.S. are a renunciation of the Obama administration in particular. It had sought to shift 30 percent of fee-for-service Medicare payments to alternative payments based on quality or value by 2016 — a goal it achieved — and 50 percent by 2018. To do so, it required doctors and hospitals in many regions of the country to adopt those new payment models.

Canceling mandatory bundled payments for cardiac and orthopedic procedures was a pet project for Mr. Price, who had fought against what he saw as unnecessary government intervention since his days as a surgeon in the suburbs north of Atlanta.

Mr. Price defended the old model in front of thousands of doctors and medical administrators gathered in June for the annual meeting of CAPG, the group pushing for new payment models, arguing that the health care system in the United States — “the finest,” he said, in the world — had developed around it.

“So we ought to recognize,” he told the group, that “fee for service may not be the end of the world.”

Many in the health care field criticized some of the rules issued by the Obama administration as overly prescriptive and welcomed the department’s effort to review them.

“Many experiments that the Obama administration launched were overly micromanaged,” said Grace-Marie Turner, an opponent of the health law and president of the Galen Institute, a research center that advocates free-market health policies. “Innovation has to percolate up from the bottom. The Obama administration tried to drive it from the top.”

Even with Mr. Price’s departure, the department still has numerous people who have advocated strongly for doctors and industry in the past. They include senior staff members who have worked representing medical device makers, pharmaceutical and hospital supply companies, the nursing home industry and physician specialty groups. The acting secretary of health and human services, Eric Hargan, is a former lawyer for the law and lobbying firm Greenberg Traurig who served as a deputy secretary at the agency during Mr. Bush’s tenure.

Miranda Franco, senior policy adviser at the law firm Holland & Knight, has closely tracked the changes. She said it appeared the administration was using the innovation center to further its priorities of “more provider-friendly approaches, more voluntary models.”

Ms. Verma, the administrator of the centers, seemed to confirm that when she wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed: “Providers need the freedom to design and offer new approaches to delivering care. Our goal is to increase flexibility by providing more waivers from current requirements.”

Last month, Ms. Verma also announced a plan to re-examine and streamline all the ways the federal government has been measuring the quality of the care doctors provide, saying in a speech, “We want to move to a system that pays for value and quality — but how we define value and quality today is a problem.” The goal, she said, was to relieve doctors of excessive regulatory burdens and make sure payment policies are “guided by those on the front lines serving patients.”

Gail Wilensky, the administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid in the first Bush administration, said she heard many complaints from doctors who felt that during the Obama presidency the agency was not listening to any of their ideas for how to move toward payment based on quality rather than quantity.

“It’s hard for me to believe that physicians will do any better than they would have done, having Tom Price there,” Ms. Wilensky said. “From their point of view, this was about as good as it was going to get.”

But Tim Gronniger, a deputy chief of staff at the centers during the Obama administration, argued that there was little demand from hospitals or physicians to cancel the bundled payments, or to delay the merit-based payments.

In fact, many doctors are still subject to the rules of the merit-based system, which passed with bipartisan support in Congress in 2015. And other value-based programs are continuing.

“They’ve confused people,” said Mr. Gronniger, now a senior vice president at Caravan Health, which helps health care providers shift to value-based payment models. “The risk that H.H.S. and Tom Price created is that some physicians incorrectly read the press release or hear from their colleagues that Medicare is canceling value-based purchasing and think all of that’s over.”

“Physicians and hospitals need to be engaged in this work,” he added, “and exempting them doesn’t do them any favors.”

Although little has changed since Mr. Price’s departure, there are signs that the agency is still trying to figure out the best way to proceed, said Michael Chernew, an economist at Harvard Medical School who supports moving away from fee for service.

Mr. Chernew said he was “cautiously hopeful” about H.H.S. continuing to promote alternative payment models, pointing out that Medicare rates under fee for service will remain flat over the next decade anyway under the payment law that Congress passed in 2015.

“My general sense, and I’ve met with them, is that they genuinely want to try to have a better set of payment models,” Mr. Chernew said of Ms. Verma and those working for her at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. “They don’t just want to try to blow everything up.”

He added, “If you take all the politics out of it, the right thing for them to do is move ahead.”