On a Saturday afternoon last July, the day after John Kelly agreed to become President Trump’s chief of staff, an email arrived in his inbox. “Congratulations!” it began. “(I think!)”

The sender was Philippe Reines, Hillary Clinton’s longtime aide and image buffer since her time in the Senate. Reines met Kelly while working for Clinton at the State Department, when Kelly was a senior military aide to Leon Panetta, then the defense secretary. The two stayed in touch. After Kelly left military service in 2016, he joined the advisory board at Reines’s consulting firm, Beacon Global Strategies, cashing a couple of checks before he was summoned to Trump Tower.

“Can’t say I’m rooting for your boss, but I’m absolutely rooting for you,” Reines wrote to Kelly. “Especially if it takes the edges off him.” He offered some unsolicited advice: Stay off television. Tend to the mystique. Let the Kellyanne Conways and Anthony Scaramuccis talk up the president on cable. “You don’t want to be in that basket,” Reines said.

Kelly replied the next day. “Thanks for taking the time,” he wrote. “I came to these same conclusions. I may be in this job for a day, or a few years, but I will stay true to my values. We are in dangerous times, Philippe, and the POTUS — any POTUS — needs all the help he can get. What I do I do for the country. That’s been my North Star for 46+ years of service and it’s worked thus far.”

Seven months later, over Presidents’ Day weekend, Air Force One touched down, as it often does, in Florida, for a spell of distinctly Trumpian president-ing: Trump visited a hospital that treated victims of the Parkland school massacre before decamping to Mar-a-Lago, where a Studio 54-style disco party was waiting. The next night, he shared a meal at the club with his adult sons, Don Jr. and Eric, and Geraldo Rivera. Near, but not so near, was Kelly, dining at another table. Some guests approached Kelly to pay tribute, thanking him for keeping the president on course. “That’s what the White House needs: discipline,” Wayne Allyn Root, a Trump-loving radio host who introduced himself to Kelly that night, told me. “I won’t say he’s a celebrity. That’s probably a bad word. But he’s a person that’s respected by everybody.”

For most of his 67 years, Kelly, a retired four-star Marine general who projects the weary asceticism of a TV cop perpetually two weeks from retirement, might have been out of place among Mar-a-Lago’s bronzed faces and gilded trimmings. But by mid-February, this was one of the few rooms where he could still expect such a warm reception. Back in Washington, the scandal surrounding his handling of abuse claims against a top aide, Rob Porter, hummed through its second week — an unusual longevity in a White House where news of a Trump lawyer’s pre-election hush payment to a porn star had come and gone without great consequence. More surprising still was how quickly, and unshakably, the crisis attached itself to Kelly, whose sins — praising the aide too forcefully before his departure, purportedly sitting on the allegations for months without acting — felt airlifted from an era of more traditional Washington cover-ups. Kelly held onto his job through the weekend, which did not initially seem like a given. But Trump had already been musing privately about possible replacements.

Even among Trump critics, Kelly once inspired uncommon sympathy. While other high-level officials, like Jeff Sessions and Rex Tillerson, had invited doubts about how long they could possibly tolerate working in the administration, Kelly’s responsibilities seemed uniquely masochistic: He was the chief disciplinarian in a famously undisciplined White House. “You never run into somebody like Trump in the military,” Panetta told me. “They’d usually get kicked out.” The job itself was premised on a paradox: If Trump weren’t Trump, Kelly’s position would be bearable. And if Trump weren’t Trump, you would not need a John Kelly.

Now, Kelly’s struggle has grown lonelier — informed, even before the Porter affair, by yawning cracks in his once-broad base of support. Some of Trump’s deepest skeptics had convinced themselves, despite a career’s worth of counterevidence, that a well-traveled military man might temper the president’s instincts, particularly on immigration. Then there were Kelly’s friends, who had already worried that the job was bending Kelly to its will, and not the other way around.

Shortly after Election Day, Senator Tom Cotton, the Arkansas Republican, went to Trump Tower to see the president-elect. Trump was preparing to staff his cabinet, and he asked Cotton, an Iraq war veteran, to name the best general of this generation. Cotton chose Kelly. “The president didn’t know about General Kelly and asked me to tell him more,” Cotton told me. In December, Trump nominated Kelly to run the Department of Homeland Security.

Unlike many prospective additions to the administration, Kelly had stayed out of the 2016 campaign. In an interview with Foreign Policy that July, he said he would be willing to serve in either a Trump or a Clinton administration but made plain his distaste for the “cesspool of domestic politics.” “To join in the political fray, I don’t think it convinces anyone,” he said, chiding fellow military leaders who had lined up behind candidates. “It just becomes a talking point on CNN.”

His confirmation process was mostly incident-free, specked with the kind of John Wayne dialogue that had dazzled Trump from the start. Before Kelly’s Senate hearing, an aide who helped him prepare, Blain Rethmeier, noticed the general had neglected to attach a flag pin to his lapel. “Blain,” Kelly told him, declining the pin, “I am an American flag.” He was confirmed on Inauguration Day, 88 votes to 11. “A great choice,” Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, said at the time.

Kelly grew up in Boston’s Brighton section, the Catholic-school-educated son of a postal worker; fellow Marines later joked that his accent required a Boston-to-English translator. In his own telling, he was shaped by two forces in the neighborhood: men who had worn the military uniform — his father, his uncles, everyone on the block — and the ubiquitous drug use among his peers. “He would claim that growing up in South Boston, he lost most of everybody he grew up with to drugs,” Adam Isacson, the director of defense oversight at the Washington Office on Latin America, told me, recalling meetings with Kelly when he led the United States Southern Command. “It was part of his persona.”

By the time the Iraq war began, Kelly, by then a three-decade veteran of the corps, had become the first Marine promoted to brigadier general in an active combat zone in over half a century, according to the Marines. On Barack Obama’s first trip to Iraq as the presumed Democratic nominee in July 2008, Kelly rode with him in an armored truck across Anbar Province. His career advanced rapidly during Obama’s first term, and in 2012, he was named to head the Southern Command (“Southcom”), charged with overseeing United States military operations in Central and South America and the Caribbean.

Under Obama, Kelly — a typically conservative Marine, friends say — was nominally tasked with steering the country toward policies he often abhorred. After officials pushed the repeal of “don’t ask, don’t tell,” Kelly seethed. “Marines will die from this,” he told colleagues at the Pentagon. (The Trump White House disputes this.) He was also a fierce defender of the status quo at Guantánamo Bay, which fell under his command, publicly criticizing efforts to close the facility and chafing at media accounts that humanized those being held there. When some detainees began a hunger strike during Obama’s second term, Kelly feared that the issue was being framed too sympathetically. His charges were instructed to call the act “long-term nonreligious fasting” instead.

But perhaps Kelly’s most instructive experiences at Southcom involved the scourge of trafficking — drugs, weapons, people. From command headquarters, just outside Miami, he tracked narcotics production in Colombia and Guatemala. At a forum in 2015, Kelly recalled meeting an official from Customs and Border Protection who oversaw some 200 miles of the Mexico-Texas line. “I asked her how much cocaine she got last year. She said, proud as she could be, ‘642 pounds,’ ” Kelly said. “That’s pocket litter to me. I got 191 metric tons last year.” He also charted the rise of MS-13, an international criminal gang that had become a security threat across Central America.

Kelly seemed to see immigration almost entirely through the prism of security — paralleling Trump’s campaign, which nodded to the zero-sum economic view of immigration prominent on the right for years, but dwelled far more on blood-and-guts anecdotes of violent crime by immigrants. Although Southcom’s area of responsibility does not include Mexico, this did not discourage Kelly from holding forth on the country, making claims that, according to Obama-administration officials, sometimes contradicted the intelligence of Northcom, the Pentagon command covering Mexico. At the height of the Ebola scare of 2014, he suggested publicly that the disease would spark a stampede across the border, incensing White House staff members who thought he was stoking panic. “If it breaks out, it’s literally, ‘Katie, bar the door,’ ” Kelly said. “And there will be mass migration into the United States.”

As he assumed control at Homeland Security, Kelly implied that his views on immigration were more nuanced than Trump’s, infused with compassion for a region whose leaders he had come to know personally. In preconfirmation testimony, Kelly accused the United States of “ignoring what our drug demand does to the people of Central and South America,” whose countries had devolved at times into “nearly failed narco-states.” He positioned himself as a moderate voice in sessions with lawmakers, casting doubt on the wisdom of a massive border wall. Speaking to a group of Democrats last year, he suggested that undocumented immigrants without a serious criminal footprint would not be enforcement priorities. “He said, ‘I’m the best thing to happen to DACA recipients,’ ” Representative Nanette Diaz Barragán, a California Democrat, told me.

The benefit of the doubt lasted nine days. On Jan. 29, Trump signed an executive order barring entry to the United States by residents of seven predominantly Muslim countries, inciting large protests at airports across the country — and a backlash against Democrats who had voted to confirm Kelly, whose department was left to carry out the order. Kelly told angry lawmakers that responsibility for the chaos was “all on me.” In reality, according to an exhaustive Inspector General’s report released early this year, Kelly and his team were caught almost entirely off-guard. He told investigators that “he had assumed that White House staff had proactively engaged Congress and other stakeholders” before the order was signed, according to the report. Publicly, Kelly cheered the spirit of the measure, arguing that a federal court order blocking the ban was preventing the nation from doing “all that we can to weed out potential wrongdoers from these locations.” Privately, he faulted the execution. “That’s not going to happen again,” he told the White House.

At the same time, Kelly was making good on a signature Trump campaign promise. Immigration officers arrested more than 140,000 people in 2017, a sharp uptick. “We questioned the fact that many of these arrests were taking place when parents were dropping off their children to go to school,” Representative Nydia Velázquez, a Democrat from New York who met with Kelly at the time, told me. “He didn’t back down.”

By then, most Democrats had seen enough. “He’s disappointing to me,” Schumer decided by February of last year, suggesting in an interview that Kelly was probably “regretting going in.”

Kelly betrayed no second thoughts in public. He also began taking on duties that appeared to be outside his jurisdiction. When news broke that Trump’s son-in-law, Jared Kushner, worked to establish a secret communications channel with Russian diplomats during the transition, it was Kelly who defended the effort on television as “a good thing.” In May, addressing a private breakfast with former diplomats and foreign-policy experts, Kelly said he had suggested to Tillerson, the ever-beleaguered secretary of state, that he could “take care of Central America” while Tillerson confronted first-order headaches like North Korea, according to a person in the room. (A White House spokesman disputes this account.)

It was no secret, by then, that Trump had grown disenchanted with his first chief of staff, Reince Priebus, who presided over a team consumed by squabbling factions, endless leaks and overbroad walk-in privileges for presidential face time. (During one Oval Office meeting Trump had with New York Times reporters in April, no fewer than 20 people came and went.) In an interview with The Times last December, Kelly said that he told Trump around this time that he did not believe the president “was being well served by the staff” in some respects. A month and a half later, Kelly recalled, Trump called and said, “I need you to be chief.”

Kelly set out first to slay the meandering, oversize meetings he loathed. “I see these people,” he used to tell staff members at Homeland Security, after returning from the White House. “I don’t even know who they are or what they do.” Almost immediately, he sought to institute new rules: Meetings were to be tight, targeted and surprise-free. Once, Vice President Mike Pence showed up for one unexpectedly. “You guys have the meeting,” Kelly grumbled, walking off, according to a White House official who witnessed the exchange.

For decades, the White House chief of staff’s mandate has been a kind of tough love — the capacity to close the door to the Oval Office and tell the president what he does not want to hear. “Above all, you are the honest broker of information,” Chris Whipple, the author of “The Gatekeepers,” a history of White House chiefs, told me. True to this template, Kelly clamped down on the free flow of information to Trump, who once rifled through Breitbart articles and conspiracy-stuffed printouts with impunity. Some executive riffraff was expelled altogether. “He fired me like a gentleman,” says Anthony Scaramucci, who lasted 11 days as communications director and scolds anyone who suggests it was 10. Those who dared attempt an unsanctioned chat with the president could expect a Kelly follow-up: “You want to be chief of staff?”

The early purges, which included the exits of the advisers Stephen K. Bannon and Sebastian Gorka, restored a measure of good will toward Kelly among Democrats. But again, Kelly’s kinship with Trump on immigration was underestimated. “Part of that is the Marine in him, part of that is the Irish guy in Boston who believes that in the end, you really do have to abide by the laws,” Panetta, a friend of Kelly’s, told me. “I think that’s what’s coming out now.”

In November, as Homeland Security was set to extend residency permits for tens of thousands of Hondurans living in the United States, Kelly made an 11th-hour plea to the department’s acting secretary to reconsider the move. When the administration debated lowering the annual cap on refugees — should it stay at 110,000? Fall to 50,000, the minimum recommended by Defense and State Department officials? Land somewhere in between? — Kelly offered his take: If it were his call, he said, the number would be between zero and one. The administration settled on 45,000.

Even as Kelly has driven out the most flamboyant West Wing agitators — Scaramucci, Omarosa Manigault Newman, Bannon, Gorka — it has not gone unnoticed that Stephen Miller, the 32-year-old senior policy adviser and Trump’s nativist id on immigration policy since the campaign, has thrived on Kelly’s watch. “He turns out to have been more hawkish than I might have expected,” Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the hard-line Center for Immigration Studies, told me of Kelly. “It’s a pleasant surprise.”

In January, several Senate moderates believed they were close to securing Trump’s support for a compromise measure protecting the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers, in exchange for border-security funding and other policy adjustments. Trump invited some of them to a televised summit at the White House, where he told them he would approve any legislation they brought him. “I’m not going to say, ‘Oh, gee, I want this, or I want that,’ ” he said. “I’ll be signing it.” He even assured Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, that he welcomed a stand-alone bill protecting the Dreamers from deportation — anathema to the negotiating position of Republicans in Congress, some of whom rushed to dissuade him at the table.

Kelly sat silently through the televised session. But after about an hour, when the cameras were dismissed and the meeting began in earnest, he unburdened himself in what four attendees described as a caustic scolding. “You’ve been fiddling around for years on immigration,” he told lawmakers. The time had come, he said before leaving in a huff, to “do your job.” Attendees were handed a document labeled “MUST HAVE’S,” outlining the administration’s demands: billions in border-wall funding, an end to “extended chain migration” and a move toward a “merit-based system” for legal immigration. These were requirements long pushed by Kelly and Miller and likely to sink any deal with Democrats.

“What’s this?” Trump asked, according to three people present, eyeballing the list of what were ostensibly his own policy directives. He suggested the papers were unhelpful and could be disregarded. Lawmakers left the meeting unsure if the president knew his own administration’s position, or if he was even responsible for it.

Days later, a bipartisan group of senators led by Dick Durbin of Illinois and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina thought again that they could sell Trump on their plans, only to be thwarted anew. This time, they did not conceal their frustrations with Kelly in particular. “I don’t think he was well served by his staff,” Graham said of the president to reporters at the Capitol. And Kelly, he said, was “part of the staff.”

In another meeting with Hispanic congressional Democrats later in January, Kelly made the case once more for a “merit-based system” for legal immigration. Members reminded him what he was asking of them. “He’s saying this to 25 members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus!” Representative Luis Gutiérrez, an Illinois Democrat, told me. “My mom came with a fifth-grade education. Someone stood up and said to him, ‘So you don’t think we should even be here?’ We’re the children of those parents. And we’re members of Congress.”

Kelly’s active role in immigration policy, Whipple told me, was highly unusual for a chief of staff, setting Kelly apart from even otherwise partisan warriors like Dick Cheney, who served as chief to Gerald Ford, and Rahm Emanuel, the first to hold the position under Obama. “This is abnormal,” Whipple said. “He’s been more partisan than almost any chief of staff I can think of.”

It took a mass shooting and another round of Russia intrigue to elbow speculation about Kelly’s job status, post-Porter scandal, temporarily out of the news. “Trying to keep below the radar particularly after the Porter issue and my involvement was so inaccurately covered,” Kelly told me in an email, declining an interview. But his standing has not necessarily rebounded. This fate seems to flow, in part, from the heightened initial expectations of him. But it also speaks to his shortage of allies in Trump’s inner circle. Rivals, sensing a power vacuum, are wasting no time, spawning a succession of leaks and counterleaks that evoke the Priebus-era West Wing.

Today Kelly holds the support of two incongruous constituencies: those who cheer him on immigration and those who assume, despite the strikes against him, that he is preventing catastrophes no one can see. But this base is shrinking. “One Donald is bad enough,” Reines, one of the last Democratic holdouts, tweeted as Kelly cycled through conflicting explanations of the Porter timeline in February. “We don’t need two.”

Older friends have greeted recent events with a deeper despair. Some war buddies, eager to publicly support Kelly when he took the job, have begged off entirely. “I’d prefer not to talk anymore about him,” Mark Hertling, a retired three-star general who served with Kelly in Iraq, told me, “given what I’ve seen lately.”

For John Allen, a retired four-star general who has known Kelly since the late 1970s and endorsed Clinton in 2016, the first distress signal seemed to come in October. Trump had upset the widow of La David T. Johnson, an Army sergeant who was killed in an ambush in Niger, by telling her that her husband “knew what he signed up for.” Defending himself afterward, Trump falsely accused Obama of not contacting the families of fallen troops at all, adding (truthfully) that Obama did not call Kelly when his son First Lt. Robert Kelly was killed in Afghanistan in 2010.

Kelly, who had long avoided discussing his loss in detail, confirmed as much from the lectern of the White House briefing room. “It must have been enormously painful for him,” Allen told me. “John is very private in his grief.” But Kelly went on to accuse Frederica Wilson, a Florida congresswoman who knew the widow and listened to Trump’s phone call with her, of making self-aggrandizing remarks years earlier. A video from the time quickly proved him wrong, but Kelly never apologized. To friends who had winced often at Trump’s conduct, but never Kelly’s, it was agonizing to watch.

In the months since, Trump and Kelly have found new reasons to grow sick of each other. Even before the Porter maelstrom began dominating Trump’s cable-news diet, the president had been smarting for weeks over Kelly’s suggestion to Fox News that the president had “evolved” on his wall demands. Both episodes stirred latent frustrations with Kelly’s imperious style, which had grated on Trump. “He’s a free spirit,” Roger Stone, Trump’s longtime informal adviser, said of the president. “Nobody handles Donald Trump. Nobody manages him. He resents those who try.” Trump has been floating Gary Cohn, his economic adviser, as a possible replacement.

But on immigration, Kelly’s legacy, such as it is, may already be secure. His tumble has coincided with what was supposed to be a period of congressional progress on the issue — testing the priorities of a president who would still like a wall but thrills at the prospect of any signing ceremony. After appearing inclined at times toward an agreement with Democrats before Kelly helped reel him back, Trump has by now wholly convinced them that he is not to be trusted to cut a deal. Once held up as the administration’s most credible cross-aisle emissary, Kelly has instead become the figure — even more than Miller, from whom Democrats expected nothing less — most closely associated with White House intransigence. “He’s not a martyr, and he’s not a hostage,” Juliette Kayyem, a former assistant secretary at Homeland Security under Obama who has worked with Kelly and who initially cheered his addition to the administration, told me. “John Kelly is not saving us.”

There is a favorite book of Kelly’s that he has said he rereads at key moments of his career. It is “The General,” a 1936 novel by C.S. Forester, set among British forces around World War I. Principally, it is about a commander unable to meet the moment. “He is a brave guy, a dedicated guy, a noble guy,” Kelly said of the protagonist, Herbert Curzon, in a collection of book recommendations by military leaders published last year, “but a guy who in the end has become a corps commander — a three-star general — and when presented with an overwhelming German attack couldn’t figure out how to deal with it because he’d never developed himself intellectually.”

Outmatched by his circumstances, Curzon resolves, at least, to fall on his terms. “He didn’t know the great lessons of the great master, if you will,” Kelly said, “and then he just decided one day to go down to his horse, grab his sword, and attack — with the intent of dying.”

Arthur Brooks: Hi, Gail. So just when we thought that 2016 couldn’t get any more shocking, it did, with a Trump victory. I told you last week that strange happenings were afoot in the universe, what with the Cubs winning the World Series and all.

I hear that New Yorkers are taking it pretty hard. Are people stocking up on canned goods?

Gail Collins: Greetings from the Land of Duck and Cover, Arthur. Not sure it’s quite sunk in. But yes, freeze-dried foods and subterranean real estate are in demand.

Arthur: “Duck and Cover” sounds like a hunting club.

So where shall we begin?

Gail: I’m a little weary of the why-it-happened conversations. Let’s get right to it: what do you think will happen next?

Arthur: Donald Trump will set up an administration. The sun will rise in the east. My dog Chucho will chase squirrels. The world will go on.

Gail: Glad to hear Chucho’s taking it well.

Arthur: He stayed cautiously neutral in the election, but he’s a very good boy.

I think you once made the point to me that there are no permanent victories or defeats in politics. So perhaps that’s a good place to start a conversation about the future. I’ve been amazed, since I came to Washington, at the collective failure to understand that point.

It is patently true upon the most cursory inspection of recent history. In 2008, Democrats were popping Champagne over the dawn of a permanent era of progressive politics. Now they see most of their dreams being unraveled. And Republicans celebrating today will sooner or later be miserable.

Gail: Hey, I made a point! Things are looking better already.

Arthur: Both winners and losers who ignore this reality make silly unforced errors. The losers err on the side of excessive fatalism, like the classic threats to leave the country.

Gail: Reader email has informed me it’s way harder to leave the country than one might think. We Americans aren’t in all that much demand.

Arthur: And the winners fail when they convince themselves that since victory is permanent, they can set an agenda that attracts no one from the other side.

Gail: Well, looking at a President Trump and a Republican-controlled House and Senate, I’d say we are in for a stretch of dumb things.

Presidents generally get most of their big changes done in the first year or two. President Obama did that with health care. His agenda was nothing compared to George W. Bush, who did everything from tax cuts to getting authorization for the Iraq invasion. But Obamacare was certainly a big lift. It was also a central campaign promise. I know you think it was a bad idea.

Arthur: I think that strategy is enormously shortsighted. I remember thinking when the Democrats held the White House and both houses of Congress in 2009, “Even though they don’t have to, it might be wise to give a little to bring some centrist Republicans into Obamacare. Some day the Republicans might be in a position to reverse everything if they have zero political investment in it.” And sure enough, here we are.

My point is that of course a president should have a vision that matches his ideology. That’s why he got elected. But I think it is impractical and imprudent to — forgive me for another reference to “This Is Spinal Tap” — turn it up to 11. Give on a few things where you don’t have to, because someday you’re going to need friends to protect the stuff you care about most. The Trump administration might learn from the outgoing administration’s horror at seeing some or all of Obamacare repealed.

Gail: We part company here. My perception of Obamacare was of a Democratic Party willing to work on compromise legislation while the Republicans just stalled. There was no unified Republican position, just a ton of people who wanted to be deal-makers but kept changing their mind.

But the bottom line is that we’ve left behind the old let’s-have-a-drink-after-work Congress. We’ve now got guys who sleep in their offices and don’t even talk to the other side at the House gym.

Arthur: Secretly a lot of them are actually friends, but I take your point. And that’s another recommendation I would make to President Trump: Make friends everyplace. That was the L.B.J.-Reagan-Clinton magic. Don’t golf with the same people every week.

Gail: Since I have no choice, I’m prepared to look on the bright side for a while. The Republican hatred of Obamacare is so great that even if Hillary Clinton had gotten elected it would have been really hard to get the necessary fixes through Congress. Trump has promised “something better” — and as of his “60 Minutes” interview something better that preserves the most popular parts of the program. So we’ll see what he comes up with.

I know you’re a big Paul Ryan fan. His agenda and Trump’s agenda really don’t match, do they?

Arthur: Congress is set to have a big influence on the agenda over the next years, and Ryan and Trump will figure out how to make their ideas jibe. Ryan’s plan includes a health care replacement plan for Obamacare. It will actually do some of the things liberals (and conservatives) really want, like getting more people covered. I realize that it’s very disappointing for progressives to see Obamacare repealed, but it’s not like it will be replaced by nothing.

Gail: This is one area where the product doesn’t usually resemble the recipe. I remember presidential candidate Barack Obama saying all health care negotiations could take place in public, on C-Span.

Grab your crystal ball and give me a couple of other predictions. I’m seeing a big tax cut and huge spending on infrastructure repair. Followed by a stupendous rise in the national debt.

Arthur: It’s certainly true that neither party has been great at getting the deficit under control in my lifetime. Nobody calls his or her congressman and says, “Don’t just do something, sit there!”

Gail: Only one side adds to the deficit while simultaneously complaining it’s too big. But let’s move on. I’m obviously cranky.

Arthur: Really? How come?

Gail: Any other postelection mullings? How about the early appointments? The Republican establishment seems super-relieved to have Reince Priebus as White House chief of staff. But Steve Bannon is going to be chief strategist. Which could mean anything.

To me Priebus is the kind of guy Democrats should learn to live with — they lost, and there’s going to be a Republican White House. But Bannon is a very bad dude who represents all the worst strands of racism and misogyny in the Trump crowd. Who do you think will really have the president’s ear?

Arthur: It looks like both will be influential. After watching the campaign, I didn’t find Sunday’s pair of appointments too surprising. They signal that in office, as during his candidacy, Trump will seek to merge traditional Republican politics with his unconventional brand of populism.

Gail: And what about immigration? It seems now the wall may be a fence, and the deportees will be only criminals. Barack Obama has been trying to deport undocumented immigrants who break the law for years. Don’t see where the big switch is.

Arthur: I think that’s right, given what we’ve heard so far. In that “60 Minutes” interview, Trump said that securing the southern border will probably involve a mixture of wall and fence, and that he plans to limit deportations to illegal immigrants who have committed crimes. Those steps would not require the kind of massive deportation force that some predicted and feared.

Gail: I’ve been thinking a lot about the source of Trump’s strength — rural areas and declining small cities. Haven’t you always told me that one of our problems is that Americans have stopped moving to where the jobs are? Apparently you’re right and they’d prefer to stay put, be angry and elect Donald Trump president.

Arthur: That’s one interpretation. Another is that people simply don’t have the skills for the promising jobs that would require a move, especially since we stopped teaching vocational and technical skills. So they stay put. I find this the more compelling view.

Gail: I always prefer the explanation that doesn’t just boil down to: “Get a move on, lazy.”

Arthur: I have three teenagers, so I confess to using that approach sometimes.

As to how all this affected politics, my colleague Nick Eberstadt published a wonderful book earlier this year called “Men Without Work.” It shows the collapse of employment among working-class middle-aged men over the past 50 years. This got much worse in the wake of the Great Recession and the disappointing “recovery,” most of which yielded no income growth for the entire bottom 80 percent of the income distribution. In other words, the Obama administration’s economic recovery was only really salient for the richest fifth of the population.

Gail: Important point, which I plan to reiterate regularly when Trump begins his economic program by reducing taxes for the rich and regulations on the banks.

Arthur: The problem isn’t just material hardship, especially given the expansion of welfare benefits. It’s the loss of dignity that comes from not creating value through honest work. For years, neither party has addressed this dignity crisis for men without a college education. There’s an obvious connection here with the explosion of suicide and opiate abuse in rural America.

Gail: I think we’re all pretty clear today that there’s a cry of rage from non-college-educated white Americans. And Trump was pretty good on the rage-cry end. But beyond a huge infrastructure repair plan — which Clinton was actually clearer on — I haven’t heard a whole lot of Trumpian solutions.

Arthur: When Trump talked about kicking out illegal immigrants and canceling Nafta, experts scoffed at the unworkability and undesirability of the specific proposals. But I talked to tons of people supporting Trump who basically said: “I don’t know if that stuff will work. But finally there’s a guy who at least is saying he’ll try something to bring back jobs.” Finally, someone who cared about them.

Gail: The bottom line was change versus no change. That’s almost always the way voters decide presidential elections and I am sorry to say that Hillary Clinton was the no-change candidate. All she promised was more of the Obama administration plus that infrastructure repair. It made sense in many ways. The country has recovered from a stupendous economic collapse under Obama. But if you’re not a happy camper, nobody’s going to convince you by showing you graphs on the unemployment rate.

Arthur: I know this election is really hard for progressives to swallow, but there’s a way to understand it, at least in part. A few years ago I was having lunch with Neera Tanden, who is president of the Center for American Progress (conservative and liberal think tank presidents are secretly friends, too). I asked her to given me a simplest explanation for why some people who never prospered over the past few years nonetheless loved President Obama so much. She said, “He gives them dignity.” I thought that was very profound, and I think that’s a big part of what’s going on today as well with Trump.

Gail: I like your analysis, as far as the voters’ emotions goes. As to Trump’s ability to follow through — well, we’ll see how it works out. Especially if the new administration’s first move to support the common man is deregulating the banks.

Arthur: I just laughed out loud about that one.

Gail: But the holidays are coming, Arthur, and everybody deserves a little bit of a break from 24-7 politics. That’s why God invented football.

Arthur: Obviously we share the same basic theology.

Gail: We’ll be taking a conversational break, too. But while I’m being thankful on Thanksgiving, I’ll be counting our talks as one of my blessings.

Arthur: Me too, Gail. Happy Thanksgiving.

In the past week, as a swirl of sexual assault accusations against Donald J. Trump has prompted a loud national discussion about male power and women’s rights, the first woman to be a major party’s presidential nominee was barely heard from.

Though Hillary Clinton has stood at the center of feminist debates for more than two decades, she has at times been an imperfect messenger for the cause. That has never been more apparent than now, as her old missteps and her husband’s history have effectively paralyzed her during a moment of widespread outrage.

The most impassioned speeches on the topic have come not from her, but from the first lady, Michelle Obama, who said Mr. Trump’s words had “shaken me to my core,” and from President Obama and others. When Mrs. Clinton herself spoke, she quickly changed the subject to other groups of people Mr. Trump had insulted, and she tried to lighten the mood with a joke about  watching cat videos.

“It makes you want to turn off the news. It makes you want to unplug the internet or just look at cat GIFs,” Mrs. Clinton told donors in San Francisco on Thursday, making her first remarks on Mr. Trump’s treatment of women since several came forward to accuse him.

“I’ve watched a lot of cats do a lot of weird and interesting things,” she said, drawing a few laughs. “But we have a job to do. And it’ll be good for people and for cats.”

The virtual silence from Mrs. Clinton speaks volumes about the complicated place she has occupied as a 1960s Wellesley feminist who stayed as a devoted wife to her husband through infidelities and humiliation.

Forcefully denouncing sexual assault would most certainly provoke ugly attacks on Bill Clinton and Mrs. Clinton’s role in countering the women who accused him of sexual misconduct. That painful past haunted Mrs. Clinton last Sunday when Mr. Trump invited some of her husband’s accusers to the second presidential debate.

In the days since, Mrs. Clinton has had to once again navigate the messy crosscurrents of politics, symbolism and her ambition to shatter “that highest, hardest glass ceiling” of being elected the first female president.

Now, when the collective voice of American women and victims of sexual assault seems to be letting out a cathartic scream, Mrs. Clinton has deferred to another first lady to speak for her. At the San Francisco fund-raiser on Thursday, she pointed to Mrs. Obama’s speech earlier that afternoon when the first lady placed her hand on her heart and spoke out for the many who were outraged.

Speaking to college students in New Hampshire, Mrs. Obama called Mr. Trump’s lewd remarks about how he had forced himself on women “disgraceful” and “intolerable.”

“I can’t believe I’m saying that a candidate for president of the United States has bragged about sexually assaulting women,” Mrs. Obama said as a crowd of young women watched with silent and somber expressions. “I can’t stop thinking about this — it has shaken me to my core.”

Mrs. Clinton has every political reason to avoid wading into the discussion of sexual assault that has riled a nation and thrown her Republican rival’s candidacy into chaos. Not known as a naturally emotive public speaker, Mrs. Clinton risks stumbling if she embraces the issue at a time when polls show that she is in her strongest position yet to defeat Mr. Trump on Nov. 8. She has played it safe, all but disappearing from the campaign trail until the next debate in Las Vegas on Wednesday.

But then again, two decades ago, it was Mrs. Clinton, who, as a 47-year-old first lady in a powder pink suit, defied her husband’s West Wing advisers and captured the attention of women worldwide by declaring, “Human rights are women’s rights, and women’s rights are human rights once and for all.”

Last summer, Mrs. Clinton began her campaign by declaring that she wanted to create “an America where a father can tell his daughter: ‘Yes, you can be anything you want to be. Even president of the United States.’”

Since then, allegations of sexual harassment have led to the ouster of Roger Ailes as chairman of Fox News; college campuses have been shaken by the six-month jail sentence given to Brock Turner, a former Stanford University student found guilty of sexual assault; and women continue to come forward with allegations against Mr. Trump.

At the same time, Mrs. Clinton, so close to becoming the first woman to win the White House amid national outrage over reports of her rival’s male lechery, has all but abandoned gender as an issue.

On Thursday, Mrs. Clinton appeared to get choked up on the set of “The Ellen DeGeneres Show” when, during a taping, Ms. DeGeneres played a portion of Mrs. Obama’s speech.

But Mrs. Clinton quickly composed herself and, in a remarkable post-gender punt, pivoted to a laundry list of other constituencies whom she said Mr. Trump had offended.

“It’s not just what Trump has said about women, as terrible as that has been,” Mrs. Clinton told Ms. DeGeneres. It’s “what he has said about immigrants and African-Americans and Latinos and people with disabilities and P.O.W.s and our military and Muslims and everybody.”

On Friday, without mentioning the accusations against Mr. Trump, Mrs. Clinton told volunteers in Seattle: “This election is incredibly painful. I take absolutely no satisfaction in what is happening on the other side with my opponent.”

Asked if Mrs. Clinton would be speaking more directly about the issue, Jennifer Palmieri, the campaign’s communications director, noted that Mrs. Clinton had confronted Mr. Trump at the last debate about the recently released 2005 video in which he bragged about groping women. “You should expect that she’ll continue to do that,” Ms. Palmieri said.

Mrs. Clinton has battle wounds from wading into gender in the past. In 1992, she seemed an affront to stay-at-home mothers when she defended her legal career, saying, “I suppose I could have stayed home and baked cookies.” As a working mother in the White House, Mrs. Clinton redefined the role of first lady when she tried, and subsequently failed, to overhaul health care, but she also played the role of a traditional wife when she stayed with Mr. Clinton despite his affair with Monica Lewinsky.

In hacked emails released by WikiLeaks this week, Mrs. Clinton was shown in an interview transcript pondering, at length, the many complexities of running to be the first female president.

“When I ran the last time, the research was pretty clear that there was a resistance to a woman president, not just among Republicans and independents, but among Democrats,” she said in one of the thousands of emails obtained by hackers who illegally breached a top aide’s account. “They didn’t think a woman was qualified, could do the job, didn’t see a woman as commander in chief,” Mrs. Clinton continued.

So, in 2008, she played up her fortitude and tried essentially to run as if she were a man. Eight years later, Mrs. Clinton talks regularly about being a mother and a grandmother, and she doesn’t shy away from embracing her potential to make history. She has also promised that as president she would advance policies that would help women, including doubling the child care tax credit, increasing the minimum wage and pushing for 12 weeks of paid family and medical leave.

And yet Mrs. Clinton has found in her second presidential campaign that young women aren’t particularly moved by her promise to make history. Many of them voted instead for Mrs. Clinton’s primary opponent, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont.

Thinking about her current campaign, Mrs. Clinton said in the transcript, “You know, I mean, I’m damned if I do, I’m damned if I don’t.”