WASHINGTON — For most journalists who cover the White House regularly, the chance to question President Obama comes rarely, and the opportunity for a one-on-one interview with him almost never.

Not so for a group of college journalists visiting the White House on Thursday, who were treated to a surprise presidential news conference in the White House briefing room. One of them even scored a tentative date to interview Mr. Obama on his campus next month.

“I heard there were some hotshot journalists here,” Mr. Obama told the students, striding to the podium to interrupt a scheduled question-and-answer session by his press secretary, Josh Earnest. “Josh was speaking for me, and I wanted to make sure he was getting it right.”

The president proceeded, over the next 40 minutes, to take a wide range of questions from the students, who were attending the first White House College Reporter Day, on issues like immigration, the water crisis in Flint, Mich., Syrian refugees, civic engagement and his proudest achievements.

In between, Mr. Obama managed to sneak in some fatherly advice — “just never admit that you’re nervous, just pretend like it’s routine,” he told one anxious questioner — and some teasing as he made pitches for an expanded student loan initiative and the confirmation of his Supreme Court nominee, Merrick B. Garland.

“Hey-ay,” Mr. Obama said, playfully cocking his head at a young woman who prefaced her question with a “Hey.”

She asked Mr. Obama whether he planned to take additional executive actions on immigration while the Supreme Court decides the fate of his program to allow millions of undocumented immigrants to live and work legally in the United States.

“Our hands are a little bit tied” on major changes, Mr. Obama said, adding that a future president could undo his executive orders, and that he was “not optimistic” that Congress would come through with legislation before he left office.

Facing a roomful of students with politely raised hands, Mr. Obama modified some of his standard lines for a younger audience. Asked about his proudest achievements as president, he cited the 2010 Affordable Care Act, which has resulted in health coverage for 20 million Americans, but also mentioned his family.

“Mainly as the assistant to Michelle Obama, I’ve raised two daughters who are amazing, and I’m really, really proud of them,” Mr. Obama said, adding that doing so while also focusing on his job was “something that I work hard on.”

Answering a student who said the president’s chances of reaching his goal of admitting 10,000 Syrian refugees by the end of the year appeared “iffy,” Mr. Obama said, “We’re going to keep on pushing.”

Dan Corey, editor in chief of The Daily Targum at Rutgers University, where Mr. Obama is scheduled to be the commencement speaker next month, seemed to catch the president off-guard when he asked point-blank for an interview when the president comes to his New Brunswick campus.

“That’s a good use of your time right there,” Mr. Obama said. He added that he usually vets interview requests with his press advisers, but, “I am favorably disposed towards giving you a little bit of time.”

A journalist who asked for a picture with him after the news conference was not as lucky; Mr. Obama said that if he obliged, “there will be a long line.”

But it was a student who asked about how to restore Americans’ faith in democracy who provoked the most animated response from the president, a former community organizer who campaigned on “hope and change” and has recently lamented his inability to change politics for the better.

After a long discourse on what is broken in politics — gerrymandered districts, a flood of undisclosed campaign contributions and negative advertisements — Mr. Obama cited the low turnout numbers in American elections, especially by young people.

“You can’t just complain; you’ve got to vote,” Mr. Obama said. “Don’t let people tell you that what you do doesn’t matter. Don’t give away your power.”

“You got me started,” the president added. “I went on a rant, didn’t I?”

OTTAWA — For President Obama, foreign trips these days have increasingly become an exercise in explaining the inflamed politics of his country to nervous foreigners.

So it was here on Wednesday, when Mr. Obama joined the leaders of Canada and Mexico at a summit meeting that began as a show of North American solidarity and ended up as an attempt to repudiate the nativist and isolationist currents that are agitating politics in the United States, as well as in Europe.

With the gothic spires of Canada’s Parliament as a backdrop, Mr. Obama, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada and President Enrique Peña Nieto of Mexico announced a landmark agreement on climate change and extolled the benefits of a Pacific Rim trade agreement. But it was the charged words in the American election and Britain’s departure from the European Union that seized most of the attention.

Mr. Obama deplored the anti-immigrant remarks of Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, particularly his statements about Mexican immigrants. Though he never mentioned Mr. Trump by name, Mr. Obama said the next American president would have a strong interest in having a solid relationship with “our good neighbor to the south.”

Speaking at a news conference with the Canadian and Mexican leaders after their meeting, the president said that anti-immigrant appeals had a long history in the United States, but that they had never permanently curtailed the flow of people into the country.

“We should take some of this rhetoric seriously and answer it boldly and clearly,” Mr. Obama said, answering a question from a Mexican journalist, “but you shouldn’t think it is representative of how the American people think.”

Mr. Obama said he rejected the argument that the harsh tone in the American presidential campaign, or in Britain’s recent referendum on leaving the European Union, was populist. He ridiculed the notion that a candidate who worked to preserve the interests of wealthy people could be a populist.

“They don’t suddenly become populist because they say something controversial in order to win votes,” Mr. Obama said. “That’s not the measure of populism; that’s nativism or xenophobia or worse. Or it’s just cynicism.”

Mr. Peña Nieto, for his part, put Mr. Trump in a line of populist demagogues, including Hitler and Mussolini, though he, like Mr. Obama, did not use the candidate’s name. “Those political actors, by using populism and demagoguery, they choose the easiest way to solve the challenges of today’s world,” he said.

Their comments lent urgency to the North American leaders’ summit meeting, a diplomatic ritual that usually goes unnoticed by the public. This meeting, in fact, slipped from being an annual gathering during the administration of George W. Bush to once-every-few-years during Mr. Obama’s presidency.

For Mr. Trudeau, who has inherited Mr. Obama’s mantle as a change agent, the meeting was a sort of debut on the global stage. He presented the deal under which Canada, the United States and Mexico pledged to generate half their power through clean energy sources by 2025. To achieve that goal, they will seek to harmonize energy regulations, increase energy efficiency and reduce emissions of methane, a greenhouse gas.

Under Mr. Trudeau’s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper, Canada pulled out of its commitments to the first global climate pact, the Kyoto Protocol, and clashed with the United States over Mr. Obama’s opposition to the Keystone XL oil pipeline. But Mr. Trudeau has recommitted Canada to legislative efforts to combat climate change, much as Mr. Obama did when he succeeded Mr. Bush in 2009.

For Mr. Obama, the visit was a chance to galvanize three major economies behind the advances made in the Paris climate-change accord, at a time when Britain’s vote to leave the European Union has clouded the prospects for multilateral cooperation and the durability of international agreements.

Mr. Obama said he worried that Britain’s exit from the European Union would freeze investment in the country and in Europe. The leaders also discussed the impact of Britain’s vote on trade agreements. Mexico and Canada are signatories to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, the mammoth Asia-Pacific deal that has stalled in the United States, with Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, and Mr. Trump both coming out against it.

Appearing with Mr. Peña Nieto on Tuesday, a day before Mr. Obama’s arrival, Mr. Trudeau said, “We’ve seen around the world many examples of protectionism, of stepping away from trade agreements and engagements like we’re showcasing today.”

In a speech to the Canadian Parliament later in the day, Mr. Obama acknowledged that globalization had unleashed deeply disruptive forces.

“While the circumstances of Brexit may be unique to the United Kingdom,” he said, “the frustrations that people feel are not.” But an interconnected world, he argued, was irreversible. The remedy was to pursue policies like the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would level the playing field.

Mr. Obama’s relations with Mr. Harper were tense, and the president had not visited Canada since 2010. With Mr. Trudeau’s election, however, the chill has given way to an affectionate big-brother relationship. In March, Mr. Obama celebrated Mr. Trudeau during a state visit to Washington that felt at times like a passing of the torch.

“He campaigned on a message of hope and of change; his positive and optimistic vision is inspiring young people,” Mr. Obama said. “On the world stage, his country is leading on climate change and cares deeply about development, so from my perspective, what’s not to like?”

This summit meeting is being marketed as a meeting of “three amigos.” But Mr. Obama is spending less time in Ottawa than Mr. Trudeau did in Washington. After his speech to the Parliament, at which he received a rapturous reception, Mr. Obama flew home, not spending a single night in the Canadian capital.

Like most countries with a larger and more powerful neighbor, Canada has a general wariness toward the United States and its political leaders. As a result, Canadian prime ministers have generally been careful to be seen as friendly but not too cozy with American presidents.

However, there appears to be little danger of that for Mr. Trudeau when it comes to Mr. Obama. Throughout Mr. Obama’s presidency, he has not only been Canadians’ favorite American politician, he has also enjoyed higher ratings than Canadian politicians. One poll released on Wednesday found him more popular even than the charismatic Mr. Trudeau.

Perhaps more surprisingly, the fondness of Canadians for Mr. Obama transcends party lines.

Christine Campbell and her husband, Rob, woke up at 5 a.m. on Wednesday to travel from Perth, Ontario, into Ottawa to wait along Mr. Obama’s motorcade route. While she voted for Mr. Harper’s Conservatives during Canada’s election last October, she said that she had always admired Mr. Obama and that she hoped Mr. Trudeau took some tips from the American president.

“Trudeau is just starting out, he’s learning the ropes,” Ms. Campbell said as she stood at an intersection where the motorcade would soon turn. “Possibly Mr. Obama will be a good mentor for him.”

SINGAPORE — When President Obama announced Monday that he was ending a half-century-long arms embargo against Vietnam, it was another milestone in his long-running ambition to recast America’s role in Asia — a “pivot” as he once called it, designed to realign America’s foreign policy so it can reap the benefits of Asia’s economic and strategic future.

Yet as Mr. Obama’s time in office comes to an end, Asian nations are deeply skeptical about how much they can rely on Washington’s commitment and staying power in the region. They sense that for the first time in memory, Americans are questioning whether their economic and defense interests in Asia are really that vital.

Mr. Obama is the first president to have grown up in the region — he lived in Indonesia as an elementary school student — and he has never doubted that America is underinvested in Asia and overinvested in the Middle East.

In visit after visit, he has capitalized on the palpable nervousness about Beijing’s intentions while also cautioning that China’s growing influence and power are unstoppable forces of history. In Mr. Obama’s view, that means both the United States and the rest of the region will have to both accommodate and channel China’s ambitions rather than make a futile attempt to contain them, while reassuring the Chinese of America’s peaceful intentions.

At the core, the policy has been building on the two-decade-old opening to Vietnam; the establishment of a new relationship with Myanmar as it lurches toward democracy; closer relations with the two largest treaty allies in the region, Japan and South Korea; and renewed military ties with the Philippines. The administration has also pushed the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which would set new terms for trade and business investment among the United States and 11 other Pacific Rim nations.

Perhaps most important, Mr. Obama has received unexpected help from the Chinese themselves, who have so overplayed their hand in the South China Sea that smaller neighbors suddenly took a new interest in deepening their relations with Washington.

Countering those developments, though, is the American political mood, which has darkened toward longstanding alliances and international trade itself. For Asian allies, this means the United States might pivot away.

“Every country in Asia views the problem differently, and through their own lenses, but they all see a twofold risk of things getting out of balance quickly,” Kurt M. Campbell, one of the architects of Mr. Obama’s strategy in his first term, said on Monday. “One is that China seriously overplays its nationalism” and that conflict breaks out in the South China Sea.

But Mr. Campbell, who is about to publish an account of Mr. Obama’s efforts titled “The Pivot: The Future of American Statecraft in Asia,” also noted that Asian nations were equally worried that America is no longer willing to be a steadying power.

“Asian countries are prone to anxiety about the behavior of major powers, for good reasons — they have seen a lot go wrong over the past thousand years,” said Daniel R. Russel, the assistant secretary of state for Asia. “And now there is angst about what comes next and the sustainability of the rebalance.”

Not surprisingly, uncertainty begets hedging, in big ways and small.

The Vietnamese gave Mr. Obama a huge welcome on Monday, lining the streets in ways reminiscent of Bill Clinton’s first presidential trip there 16 years ago. But missing from the news conferences was the hard-core group in the leadership that remains deeply suspicious that Washington’s real long-term goal is regime change.

So while almost certainly they will buy American arms — especially the high-tech gear they need to keep an eye on what the Chinese are doing at the edge of Vietnam’s territorial waters — they have no intention of building the kind of alliance the United States has with Japan and South Korea. “Now that the U.S. fully lifted the weapons ban, I think U.S. Navy vessels will come to Cam Ranh Bay later this year,” said Alexander L. Vuving, a specialist on Vietnam at the Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies in Honolulu.

Last week, as the streets of Hanoi were being cleaned up for the president’s visit, the Chinese were meeting with Vietnam’s defense minister, pledging to strengthen their military ties.

In the Philippines, the firebrand who has just been elected president, Rodrigo Duterte, once promised to ride a Jet Ski to plant a flag on one of the artificial islands the Chinese have constructed. More recently, he is backing away from the current government’s effort to press its sovereignty arguments, saying he wants to negotiate directly with the Chinese, perhaps swapping a little sovereignty for some economic concessions. That is just the kind of invitation the Chinese wanted to hear.

Mr. Obama’s vision is certainly nuanced. As Mr. Campbell writes in his book, the trick in the pivot is to build a deep relationship with the Chinese to convince not only “China but also China’s neighbors that our China policy is not intended to produce needless and unproductive friction.”

Containment “has little or no relevance to the complexities of an interdependent Asia in which most states have deep economic ties with China.”

The Chinese are unconvinced. One of the key military elements of the strategy is for American troops to “rotate” through strategically important Asian ports — not to be based there, but to be able to land, refuel, train and build partnerships.

It started with Darwin, Australia. Now Mr. Obama is trying to do the same in the Philippines, which the United States left more than two decades ago, and at the deepwater port of Cam Ranh Bay, if the unspoken deal with Vietnam works out. That would give Washington more reason to regularly traverse waters the Chinese claim as their exclusive zone. But it is unclear that presence is large enough to deter further Chinese expansion.

The biggest challenge, however, is on the home front. Donald J. Trump’s threat to withdraw American forces from South Korea and Japan unless they pay far more of the cost — and they already pay much of it — may just be a negotiating position. But it suggests that the United States has no independent national interests in the Pacific. That would be a rejection of a post-World War II order that goes back to the Truman administration.

The real glue may well be the Trans-Pacific Partnership — the big, unwieldy trade deal that involves a dozen nations, but not the Chinese. Mr. Russel notes that for President Obama, the agreement “fulfills the strategic promise of the rebalance, as a system that integrates the U.S. with the Asian-Pacific region.”

Good geopolitics, though, often makes for bad domestic politics. Even some of Hillary Clinton’s top foreign policy aides were astounded by her decision to declare herself against a deal she often praised. After all, in November 2012, just before she left the State Department, she did not sound like she had a lot of doubts: “Our growing trade across the region, including our work together to finalize the Trans-Pacific Partnership, binds our countries together, increases stability and promotes security,” she said then.

The question is whether the opposite is also true: Having put America’s Pacific strategy on the line, if the deal fails does that mean the binding glue will loosen, and stability and security will be imperiled? And if so will the leaders of Asia see that as another reason to welcome Mr. Obama’s successor one week, and visit Beijing and Moscow the next?

HANOVER, Germany — The United States will significantly increase the number of military personnel, including Special Forces, in Syria to fight the Islamic State, President Obama said on Monday as he concluded a six-day trip to the Middle East, Britain and Germany.

Mr. Obama, whose comments came in a speech in which he pressed for European unity, said that he would add 250 military personnel to the 50 already on the ground in the hopes of cementing what he said was progress in pushing back the Islamic State, also known as ISIS or ISIL, from territory that it had held.

“They’re not going to be leading the fight on the ground,” Mr. Obama said, confirming a recent report in The New York Times, “but they will be essential in providing the training and assisting local forces.”

In the 49-minute speech, Mr. Obama urged Europeans to remain united in the face of growing economic and security threats, saying that the dangers of inequality, terrorism, prejudice and injustice would drag down the United States and Europe if countries on both sides of the Atlantic do not continue to work together.

Mr. Obama told an audience of business leaders, politicians and students that Europe must not let itself be pulled apart by those who fear cooperation.

“Dangerous forces do threaten to pull the world backwards, and our progress is not inevitable,” Mr. Obama said in one of his final trips to Europe as president. “We are not immune from the forces of change around the world.”

Mr. Obama has spent much of his visit to Europe urging the British people to vote to remain in the European Union in a referendum on June 23. He said repeatedly over the past week that leaving the 28-member bloc would undercut Britain’s influence and weaken the democratic alliance that binds Europe.

In his speech on Monday, Mr. Obama went further, arguing to members of the predominantly German audience that they, too, must resist the temptation to go it alone in fighting the Islamic State, pushing for economic security and confronting the huge new flows of migrants.

“If we do not solve these problems, you start seeing those who would try to exploit those fears and frustrations and channel them in a destructive way,” Mr. Obama said in comments that appeared to refer, at least in part, to Donald J. Trump, the leading candidate for the Republican presidential nomination.

Support for populist and nationalist movements has grown in Europe in recent months, with the most recent example coming on Sunday in Austria, where a member of the far-right Freedom Party finished on top in the first round of voting for the country’s largely ceremonial presidency.

Reflecting on the dangers to the political situation, Mr. Obama quoted the Irish poet William Butler Yeats in saying that they lurk where “the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.”

That kind of destructive politics must not take root in Europe, Mr. Obama said, or there would be damaging consequences for the United States and many other nations around the world.

“If a unified, peaceful, liberal, pluralistic free-market Europe begins to doubt itself, begins to question the progress that’s been made over the last several decades, then we can’t expect the progress that is just now taking hold in many places around the world will continue,” he said.

Mr. Obama’s warnings against unilateral actions were clearly intended to steer Europe away from nationalist or isolationist stands. But, in fact, his close ally, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, has found herself isolated in the European Union for refusing to meet calls from other countries or from her conservative bloc to put an upper limit on the flow of migrants.

Ms. Merkel put together a deal between Turkey and the European Union in March that gave a veneer of unity to the Continent’s very mixed response to arriving refugees and migrants. That deal remains the subject of intense debate in light of Turkey’s current crackdown on the news media and on other freedoms.

The accord has succeeded in sharply reducing the migrant flow, but only in tandem with an earlier decision by Austria and Balkan states to close their land borders and shut off the route favored by approximately one million migrants last year.

Mr. Obama also gently chided the Germans and other European nations for not always carrying a fair share of the financial and military burden as part of the NATO alliance.

Those comments echoed remarks the president made recently in The Atlantic, where he referred to some European leaders as “free riders” who relied too heavily on the United States to pay for their military defense and to wage the fight against extremism.

He said he would go to the NATO meetings in Europe this summer and would demand that every nation contribute 2 percent of its gross domestic product to the defense of the Continent.

“We can’t deal with these challenges by ourselves,” Mr. Obama said.

For much of the speech, the American president lavished praise on Europe, citing what it has achieved. He said that Europeans should not take for granted the democratic societies they have built or the major wars they have avoided in the past several decades.

“Perhaps you need an outsider, somebody who’s not a European, to remind you of the magnitude of what you’ve achieved,” he said, adding that the European Union “remains one of the greatest political and economic achievements of modern times.”

But he also cautioned that confronting the very real issue of economic inequality would require unity and more cooperation, not the erection of new barriers.

“The answer to reform is not cutting ourselves off from each other,” he said.