At the end of a recent Sunday service, the congregants at the Fourth Universalist Society on Central Park West placed their hands on the shoulders of a woman who stood in the center of the church. Then other members reached forward to touch those people’s shoulders, until the entire congregation was linked by touch like a radiating star.

It was a symbol of their commitment to put the woman, Aura Hernandez, 37, an undocumented Guatemalan immigrant, at the center of their church’s life for what may be months or even years to come. Two weeks ago, Ms. Hernandez moved into a worn former office at the historic Upper West Side church with her 15-month-old daughter, Camila, to avoid deportation to Guatemala. In doing so, she joins about 40 other immigrants around the nation who are being publicly shielded by houses of worship. She vows to remain there, without going outside, until her immigration status changes.

“I don’t intend to stand here with my arms crossed, and do nothing,” Ms. Hernandez said in Spanish at the church on Tuesday, about her goal in seeking sanctuary. “I have to stand up and raise my voice because an injustice is being committed to me and to us. I think I’m here for a reason.”

With help from other houses of worship and volunteers, this 130-member congregation will feed Ms. Hernandez, do the family’s laundry, and help care for Camila, who is a U.S. citizen and can go outside. They will buy new carpet and paint for her room, and welcome Ms. Hernandez’s 10-year-old son, Daniel, to live there on weekends and when the school year ends. Daniel, also born in the United States, is living in Westchester County with Ms. Hernandez’s husband, who also is undocumented.

It is a difficult situation, but the members of the Fourth Universalist, who met Ms. Hernandez at the March 18 service, said they were excited about being asked for help. Their Unitarian Universalist denomination calls for the use of social action to advance progressive principles, they explained. So for them, this is a unique opportunity.

“We call this room where we worship a sanctuary, and it has a brand new meaning right now,” the Rev. Schuyler Vogel said at the service. “It has these stone walls, and they aren’t just representational anymore. They protect actual people, keeping someone safe, to ensure that hate is kept out and love is held in.”

Ms. Hernandez is the second person in New York City to publicly seek sanctuary in a church. The first, Amanda Morales Guerra, who is also from Guatemala, has been living in the Holyrood Episcopal Church in Washington Heights since August with her children, ages 10, 8 and 3.

Churches can effectively shield immigrants from deportation because houses of worship are considered sensitive sites where enforcement is avoided by the Immigration of Customs and Enforcement, commonly referred to as ICE. But ICE reserves the right to go into sensitive sites “in limited circumstances,” according to its official policy.

As the weeks fold into months, living in a church takes a toll, both on the person and the church that is housing them. Stuck almost completely inside for nearly eight months, Ms. Morales said Wednesday she was experiencing panic attacks. “I had a dream this week that I was being strangled,” she said in Spanish. “I was screaming and no one could hear me.”

Ms. Hernandez makes tortillas in the church kitchen for Camila and cooks beans. There is a steady stream of visitors from immigrant organizations and the congregation. But at night, when the Gothic 19th-century building is quiet and dark, even going down the stairs to the bathroom can be terrifying, she said.

She cried when she talked about the happy life she had been leading, a difficult life of cleaning houses, but also the Sunday celebrations at the park, and her pride in her son’s progress at school. In Guatemala, an abusive former partner has vowed to kill her, she said, and she has lost family members to violence.

These days, her son is a puddle of tears after his weekly visit. “I have to recover it,” she said of her American life. “I owe it to my children.”

While many undocumented immigrants are receiving legal help and other assistance, seeking church sanctuary remains a rarity, because of the toll it takes on families. The idea behind the strategy is to give immigrants time to file legal appeals, while placing public pressure on ICE to grant reprieves, said Noel Andersen, of the Church World Service, an ecumenical human rights and refugee resettlement organization.

The strategy can work. Of the 39 immigrants who sought public sanctuary nationally in 2017, nine were granted reprieves from deportation, according to a database kept by the organization. Of the 12 who have sought sanctuary in 2018, six have gotten reprieves.

Not counted in those numbers are people who seek sanctuary in houses of worship without going public. In New York, about a dozen immigrants are hiding that way, according to Juan Carlos Ruiz of the New Sanctuary Coalition, which organizes sanctuary.

Each immigrant’s case is unique, though a fear of violence if deported is a common theme, as is a desire to keep families together.

Ms. Hernandez was 24 in 2005 when she crossed the border into Texas with a 9-year-old nephew. She was picked up by the Border Patrol within minutes of entering a town. During the three days of detention that followed, she alleges she was sexually abused by a border patrol officer. At the end of the third day, she said, another officer released her and her nephew and brought them to a bus stop, handing her some papers. “Welcome to the United States,” she said the officer told her.

Traumatized, she said she never read the paperwork, which was in English. When she arrived at her sister’s apartment in New York, she put it into a drawer. With time, and talking to a psychologist, she said she began to recover, getting a job and meeting her husband, who was from Mexico.

Then in 2013, she was caught in Mamaroneck, N.Y., driving the wrong way down a street that is one-way on Sundays. The police officer, seeing she had no documents, reported her to immigration officials. It was then she learned she had an active deportation order for failing to appear at a 2005 court date in Texas, she said.

A lawyer helped her file for a special visa available to crime victims after she told him about the sexual assault. But she said the appeal was ultimately denied, with immigration officials saying too many years had passed.

The New Sanctuary Coalition is seeking to reopen her case because of the assault allegation and the violence she says she would face in Guatemala. ICE officials did not respond to requests for comment.

On Thursday, the New Sanctuary Coalition will announce Ms. Hernandez’s presence in sanctuary at an event that will include a march around Trump International Hotel and Tower that will end at the church.

Ms. Hernandez said she hopes she will only have to be in the church for a few months, but she knows it may be longer. She does not see another way.

“They abused me physically, psychologically, and now they want to separate me from my kids,” she said in her makeshift quarters, sounding alternately despondent and defiant. “And that I will not stand for.”

JOURNEY INTO EUROPE Islam, Immigration, and Identity By Akbar Ahmed Illustrated. 573 pp. Brookings Institution Press. $34.99.

In 2013, Akbar Ahmed, a celebrated scholar of Islam and Pakistan’s former high commissioner to Britain and Ireland, was invited to speak at a mosque in Athens. What he saw there took him aback. The facility was less a house of God than an underground parking lot “of a particularly sinister aspect,” with its low ceilings, foul odor and atmosphere of bleak desolation. In all of Athens, he learned, there wasn’t a single purpose-built mosque serving the Muslim community. If these were the conditions under which hundreds of thousands of people worshiped, how then did they live and work?

“These men had nothing to lose, and I could imagine the most desperate among them prepared to lash out in an unpredictable and even murderous manner,” Ahmed writes in “Journey Into Europe,” the latest installment of his series on Muslims around the world. “This, I felt, was Europe’s ticking time bomb.” European politics only exacerbated the tension. Five years ago, voters were already drifting toward far-right politicians who openly displayed their distaste for Muslims. Today, their views are practically mainstream. “Journey Into Europe” attempts to elucidate why relations between secular European countries and their Muslim populations have grown so fraught, and what can be done to improve them.

The bulk of Ahmed’s research comes from a listening tour he embarked on with a team of researchers between 2013 and 2017. They interviewed imams, community leaders, activists and ordinary people across the continent about the challenges European Muslims face today. Their findings are predictably grim. Across the board, interviewees reported feeling marginalized, stereotyped and prevented from professional advancement because of their background. Despite their multitude of experiences, they ended up lumped into the crude categories that conflate terrorists, Muslims and refugees; Arabs, Persians and Africans; recent immigrants with no facility in the local language and second-generation doctoral students fluent at the highest level. “We are in a cosmic depression,” a British psychologist laments.

Many patterns of discrimination, Ahmed notes, are rooted in colonial legacies that vary by country; in his assessment, Pakistanis in Britain are better integrated than, say, French citizens of Algerian and Moroccan descent. But even absent empire, many of the Muslims he speaks to find it hard, if not impossible, to fit in. “In Denmark they strangle you slowly, slowly,” one interviewee proclaims.

Ahmed also documents how Muslim communities end up reinforcing negative stereotypes. Refugees bring with them sectarian and ethnic rivalries that make little sense in Europe. Ahmed’s own team of researchers was chased away from a mosque in Bradford, England, by a group of aggressive teenagers. What happened there “captures the current predicament of contemporary European Muslim society: angry and noisy young Muslims, unresolved issues concerning immigration, frequent violence and terrorism, often inspired by ISIS, the rise of the far right and its dangerous rhetoric of religious hatred and rampant Islamophobia.”

Ahmed spends little time analyzing the role of economics in promulgating these xenophobic sentiments. Nor does he compare Muslims’ fates with the predicament of other migrants — Polish workers in England were, after all, a major target of Brexiteers — or the situation of Christians in the Middle East. His study is more ethnographic than political. We learn from the experiences of living, breathing people. Ahmed also reminds us of the considerable philosophical, scientific and cultural gifts that Muslims gave Europe throughout the ages.

The book’s most interesting observations don’t concern Muslims, though, but the white Europeans who are struggling to reconcile the presence of these perceived outsiders with their idea of who they themselves are. Ahmed brilliantly illustrates how deeply rooted European tribal identities take hold during periods of rapid change and uncertainty, and how central these exclusionary concepts can be, particularly for Nordic and Germanic societies.

The tribal Germanic idea of Heimat, or homeland, for instance, represented a bulwark against the ills of modernity before the Nazis notoriously used it as a pretext for ethnic cleansing. Ahmed talks about Heimat in the same breath as the “hygge” fad — a Nordic idea of warm, fuzzy togetherness that doubles as an advertisement for hot toddies and winter socks. Ahmed notes that the two concepts are rooted in a primordial tribal impulse to wall off familiar locals from (presumably prickly) outsiders. The popularity of these ideas in times of widespread social and political insecurity makes sense: They are a source of pride, and a throwback to simpler times. In Ahmed’s sober, scholarly analysis of primordial European customs, Westerners are so used to reading about unruly Arab tribes that they forget Christian Europeans are descended from societies with similar structures, values and morals.

Ahmed frames tribal identity — whether Norwegian or Bedouin — as a political conundrum: “how to remain strong in your own identity without transgressing onto that of others.” Too much can lead to predatory chauvinism; too little can bring about a loss of self, a “dangerous vacuum where … identity should have been.” This point is fundamental to his analysis. Rather than diagnosing tensions between Muslims and white Europeans as an innate clash of cultures, Ahmed blames a loosening of identities — religious, national, tribal and cultural — on all sides that’s further exacerbated by globalization.

His solution borrows from the past. He hopes Europeans can form new, hybrid identities that broaden the criteria for who belongs. Europe happens to have a homegrown example of this philosophy in medieval Andalusia, when people of multiple faiths in parts of modern-day Portugal and Spain enjoyed convivencia, a state of relative pluralism, peace and prosperity under Muslim rule. “The answer to the violence and tensions between religions in Europe today and the sense of alienation and confusion in Muslim youth is to revive and strengthen the Andalusian model as an alternative to that of a monolithic tribal society,” Ahmed writes.

At the same time, Ahmed makes efforts not to succumb to what he calls “Andalusian syndrome,” or “a nostalgia felt too deep for words about a beloved civilization in the past that haunts the imagination” (afflicted parties include everyone from Prince Turki of Saudi Arabia to the Marxist theorist Tariq Ali). This period was hardly utopian, and Ahmed characterizes popular accounts of it — in the works of Salman Rushdie, notably — as excessively rosy. Ahmed also concedes that the old version of Andalusia is “dated, impractical and has little legitimacy” today. But his yearning for a better way, and his conviction that a “New Andalusia” can exist, carries the reader through some 500 pages.

Modern manifestations of convivencia are admittedly rare, but there are some bright spots. When accounting for why many Muslims have found a happy home in Scotland, Ahmed borrows a touching idea from the Scottish nationalist politician Alex Salmond: that “tartan tribalism” is a kind of mosaic identity, “flexible enough to accept immigrants with different religious and racial backgrounds.” This flexibility, his research team found, is what brings unity to diverse societies. Regions with a greater understanding of their own mixed-up, multiethnic past — parts of Sicily, Portugal, even postwar Bosnia — are more inclined toward pluralism than the parts of Europe where people define themselves through blood or soil.

The fundamental message of “Journey Into Europe” is that throughout history, Islamic and European civilizations have often been not just compatible, but complementary. It’s crucial to acknowledge their shared past to reject today’s resurgent tribalism. The stakes, as Ahmed puts it, are “Andalusia or dystopia.”

Intellectually, his conclusion is hard to argue with. But since 9/11, popular perceptions of Islam in the West have been informed by emotion, not facts or reason. That makes it difficult to envision how this book will change anyone’s mind. The mere suggestion that Europe was once better off under Muslim rule would be enough to end a conversation not just with conservatives but with many liberals, too. The collective change of heart needed to achieve convivencia today would require — in Ahmed’s own assessment — “a strong moral leadership reflecting both wisdom and compassion while transcending religious, cultural and national boundaries.” That, too, seems further away than ever.

MEXICO CITY — Lalo Aguilar was born in the Mexican border city of Juárez 29 years ago, carries a Mexican passport and lives in Mexico City. Yet he speaks of Mexico as a kind of foreign country, a place to which he was banished.

“Exile,” he calls it.

In 2012, after living nearly his entire life as an undocumented immigrant in Utah, he was deported to Mexico after an altercation with some police officers over an immigration-enforcement bill he was protesting.

“Here, I don’t click,” he said. “The land I grew up on, the mountains, the forest: That’s home.”

He is part of a growing population of Mexicans who spent much — if not most — of their lives in the United States without immigration papers before returning to Mexico, either voluntarily or by force.

Many must deal with feelings of loss, dislocation and confusion, adrift in a kind of transitional state between two countries: one they knew and loved but that rejected them, and another in which they have citizenship but lack a deeper sense of belonging.

The experiences of these returnees have become more resonant in light of the intensifying debate in the United States Congress about the future of young immigrants who were brought to the country as children.

At the core of that debate is a program, created by the Obama administration, that shields from deportation about 800,000 immigrants who came as children, most of them from Mexico. President Trump called last year for the end of the program, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, and he ordered Congress to come up with an alternative solution for the program’s participants.

Should Congress fail to agree on a solution that would extend legal protections to those immigrants — as well as to another one million who were eligible for DACA but never signed up — they would face renewed threats of deportation.

Many of the young immigrants, a group broadly known as Dreamers, have vowed to stay. But the choice may not be theirs one day. And in Mexico, those who have already returned from the United States warn: Reintegration is rarely easy.

To be sure, voluntary returnees and deportees say that landing in Mexico can have upsides. They can walk the streets without fear of deportation. They can reconnect with long-lost relatives. They can afford college.

But the positive turns can be overwhelmed by the challenges.

Many arrive in a place they never knew as adults, or do not remember. Some may find themselves alone, their friends and relatives still living in the United States. Some may even wrestle with speaking Spanish.

They may struggle to continue their education, find jobs and make their experience in the United States count for something in Mexico.

Their return can carry a stigma: the shame of a deported criminal, or a sign of utter failure.

“The early days was just, like, culture shock, man,” said Mr. Aguilar, who had grown up in what he called “a small white Mormon town” in Utah.

After returning to Mexico, “I isolated myself in my room pretty much,” he said. “Isolation and depression, trying to figure out what was going on, how I ended up living in Mexico.”

The size of the response by the Mexican government has not matched the scope of the struggle of its young citizens who have returned, according to returnees, their advocates and migration scholars.

This stands in contrast to the Mexican government’s supportive approach toward Mexican immigrants in the United States, where the vast Mexican consular network has provided a range of services, including legal assistance and guidance in obtaining benefits in the United States such as DACA protections.

“Mexico is helping migrants become members of a country where they are not citizens while denying their membership in the country where they do hold citizenship,” said Alexandra Délano Alonso, a professor of global studies at The New School in New York and an expert on migration and the Mexican diaspora.

In Mexico, the federal government did start a program in 2014 that sought to help returnees reintegrate into Mexican society. A cornerstone of the program is a network of reception centers along the border that greet deportees with food, help them sign up for health insurance, provide access to a phone and local transportation, and give information about how to get work.

But critics say the reach of the program, Somos Mexicanos, is minimal and its effects temporary.

“Somos Mexicanos has been a Band-Aid,” said Jill Anderson, co-director of Otros Dreams en Acción, a support group in Mexico for deported and returning immigrant youth. “It’s a political messaging campaign.”

Following President Trump’s call in September to end DACA, Mexico’s foreign ministry issued a statement extolling the economic and cultural contributions of young immigrants to the United States and vowing that Mexico “will receive with open arms the Dreamers who return to our country.” The ministry laid out a series of initiatives intended to help their reintegration, including a job bank, a credit program, and scholarships.

In response to a request for information about the status of the initiatives, a foreign ministry spokeswoman sent links to two pages on the web site of Mexico’s National Migration Institute. But neither provided further information about the job bank, credit program or the scholarships.

Eunice Rendón, the coordinator of Agenda Migrante, an advocacy group for Mexican migrants, said the reintegration of returning migrants has been a longstanding problem.

“We had a very big quantity of people since before Trump who had difficulty reintegrating,” said Ms. Rendón. “It’s not a new problem. What Trump has done is make it visible.”

Amid limited help from the government, a small but expanding ecosystem of community-based organizations has emerged around the country to help returning migrants, particularly Dreamers, find their footing in Mexico.

The informal network includes New Comienzos, which started in 2015 and operates out of a sleek co-working space in central Mexico City, near a call center employing bilingual returnees in a neighborhood known as Little L.A.

Israel Concha, 38, New Comienzos’ founder, said groups like his have become lifelines to undocumented Mexicans in the United States preparing for a possible return.

“They’re asking the smallest questions: ‘I’m studying. Can I continue with my education in Mexico?” said Mr. Concha, who was deported in 2014 after living in the United States for three decades.

Less than a mile away, Ms. Anderson’s group, Otros Dreams en Acción, has opened a communal space they named Poch@ House, reappropriating the Spanish word “pocho,” which is mostly used pejoratively to describe those who have left Mexico and have presumably lost their Mexican identity.

The space draws returnees seeking guidance and offers activities such as yoga and dance classes, writing workshops and language lessons.

Conversation flows seamlessly between English and Spanish, sometimes in the same sentence. Decorations reflect binational lives: a Utah license plate, a Day of the Dead skull, a bumper sticker from an American radio station.

Maggie Loredo, a founding member, said nothing like this existed when she returned to Mexico in 2008. She had moved to the United States when she was 2, and grew up in Texas and Georgia. She made the hard decision to head back to Mexico because she could not afford an American college education and her undocumented status put scholarships out of reach.

At the time, she said, those who came back often kept their American experiences to themselves and dealt with the emotional struggle and culture shock on their own.

“Everything was very much in the shadows,” she said. “You never heard anyone talk about deportation and returns. You didn’t hear about anyone else with a similar background as you.”

But as the community of the deported and returned has grown, it is finding its voice, helping to create a softer landing for new arrivals.

Those facing return “are scared,” Mr. Concha said. “But at least they know there’s a light at the end of the tunnel, and that there’s a second chance in Mexico.”

For nearly a decade, the photographer John Moore has traversed the Mexico-United States border, covering the story of immigration from all sides — American, Mexican, immigrant and border agent.

His depiction of the border is both literal and figurative.

He captures misty images of river bends and rusty walls that undulate over sun-bleached grass, the natural and man-made lines of defense. He also makes intimate portraits of both migrants and border officers who square off on either side.

Migrants are splayed out on cold concrete floors, huddled beneath sparse tree cover as border agents circle in helicopters above, and lined up in a row, handcuffed, illuminated by the blue lights of police vehicles.

Law enforcement becomes a part of the landscape — rigid and unyielding, as fixed as the walls, mountains and infrastructure they patrol. They survey stunning patches of forest and farmland with rifles at the ready. They listen stone-faced as racial epithets are shouted at anti-immigration rallies.

But for Mr. Moore, immigration begins and ends well beyond the physical border — a line where fear and hope collide to shape American politics.

Mr. Moore’s border drops down to the gang-controlled neighborhoods of Honduras, where violence and insecurity are forcing record numbers of families to flee. It stretches north for hundreds of miles, from the auburn deserts of Arizona into the farmlands of Colorado, where migrant workers grow and harvest organic kale.

A young mother decides the odds of surviving a 1,000-mile trek to the United States are better than those of staying home, and her family’s journey begins. For some, their travels end in a locker containing the personal effects of “unknowns,” remnants of the anonymous. For others, there are white body bags.

Mr. Moore chronicled the journey of immigrants, bringing together a body of work that involved dozens of trips over the years but came into focus after the election of Donald J. Trump, when American frustration over illegal immigration found its mark.

A few days after the election, Mr. Moore was on a plane back to the border to continue shaping what would eventually become a book.

Since Mr. Trump’s election, the numbers of migrants trying to cross into the United States has dropped, though historically they remain high. Many attribute this drop to Mr. Trump’s rhetoric and a hostile climate in the United States.

But wherever the numbers go, Mr. Moore’s images reflect an American truth: The fury and debate over immigration to the United States appears to be going nowhere.

BUDAPEST — Billboards. TV campaigns. Radio programs. The anti-immigrant government of Prime Minister Viktor Orban uses different levers to influence public opinion, particularly on the subject of the European refugee crisis.

Even school textbooks.

On Page 155 of the latest eighth-grade history textbook, students are told that Mr. Orban thinks refugees are a threat to Hungary — and then encouraged to believe he is right. “It can be problematic,” the book concludes, “for different cultures to coexist.”

It is a testament to the scope of Mr. Orban’s program for remaking Hungary that part of the far-right leader’s message is now woven into the school curriculum.

For the past eight years, Mr. Orban has waged a systemic assault on the hardware of Hungary’s democracy — rewriting the national Constitution, reshaping the judiciary and tweaking the electoral system to favor his Fidesz party. Less conspicuously, Mr. Orban is also trying to recode the software of Hungary’s democracy — its cultural sphere, civil society and education system.

His party’s appointees or supporters dominate many artistic institutions and universities. A growing number of plays and exhibitions have had nationalist or anti-Western undertones. Religious groups and nongovernment organizations critical of Fidesz have seen funding dry up. He has especially vilified pro-democracy organizations funded by the Hungarian-American philanthropist George Soros.

National opinion surveys are used to steer public opinion as much as collect it, while history is also up for grabs. The government has jousted with educators over textbooks while promoting a narrative of Hungarian victimhood and ethnocentrism.

“The government’s goal,” said Laszlo Miklosi, president of the Association of Hungarian History Teachers, “is to create a version of history preferable to Orban.”

With Hungary holding a general election on April 8, Mr. Orban is expected to win easily, enhancing his status as a leading figure in the global far right. For many pro-democracy Westerners, Mr. Orban’s efforts to build an “illiberal democracy” inside the European Union is chilling. Among many far-right populists on both sides of the Atlantic, he is revered.

“He’s a hero,” Stephen K. Bannon, President Trump’s former strategist, said this month while touring Europe. He described Mr. Orban as “the most significant guy on the scene right now.”

That scene, some say, is the unraveling of democracy. In a report issued in March, a German research group, Bertelsmann Stiftung, said Hungary was “nearing” the threshold of autocracy.

In Budapest, government officials describe their societal revamp as a mainly technocratic reform effort, rather than an ideological campaign, one validated by Mr. Orban’s success at the ballot box.

“The government is using its democratic legitimacy not only to reform the state but to reform the society,” said Professor Andras Patyi, the head of a new university formed by Fidesz to train the public officials of the future. He said the current president of France, Emmanuel Macron, was doing the same thing. “This is common in democratic societies,” he said.

But Mr. Orban has recognized the political power to be gained by harnessing culture, history and civil society. He usually spends Thursdays reading books, essays and polling data, while meeting with writers and thinkers, two of his longtime associates said. The goal is not pleasure but power, said Zoltan Illes, a former Fidesz minister.

“He wants to see what the new developments are and adapt them to his politics, to increase the life span of his governance,” Mr. Illes said.

Authors with a sweeping vision of human nature and society seem to fascinate him. Last April, for example, he met with Philip Zimbardo, the psychologist who created the Stanford Prison Experiment, the 1971 study of authoritarianism, which explored how ordinary people would respond when placed in positions of power.

The two men spent more than two hours talking alone in Mr. Orban’s office, surrounded by paintings of Hungarian history. Mr. Orban seemed uninterested in the Stanford experiment, Mr. Zimbardo said, but was keen to understand his theory about how to energize frustrated young men who feel left behind by modern society.

“I was giving him ideas,” said Professor Zimbardo, who disagrees with Mr. Orban’s politics, “about how psychology plays a central role in our lives.”

This month, tens of thousands of people marched in Budapest to cheer a speech by the prime minister in a political rally to help Fidesz win re-election.

Except the organizer was not Fidesz but a civilian named Laszlo Csizmadia — whose work embodies how Mr. Orban has tried to influence the civil arena through like-minded culture warriors.

For the past eight years, Mr. Csizmadia has led a government institution called the National Cooperation Fund, the largest Hungarian fund for civil society organizations. The group does not provide a fully itemized list of its grants, but in 2012 the independent news website Atlatszo found that its biggest beneficiaries tended to be groups with religious and nationalist aims. Three of the top recipients were led by Fidesz politicians.

A right-wing theorist, Mr. Csizmadia has written widely that the duty of nongovernmental groups is to preserve national identity and uphold Christian values. Most tellingly, he argues that since an elected government represents the will of the people — and since civil society should strive to fulfill the people’s will — then civil society exists to carry out a ruling party’s manifesto.

“Obviously, civil society needs to help and support the government to follow through with its promises,” Mr. Csizmadia said in an interview this month. “This is an incredibly important thing.”

While channeling money toward its supporters, the government has simultaneously squeezed alternative sources of funding for NGOs that oppose its ideas. With few funding opportunities now available inside Hungary, human rights groups have become increasingly reliant on foreign money — in particular from the Norwegian government and the Open Society Foundation, a charity run by Mr. Soros.

In response, the authorities raided some of the organizations that distributed Norwegian money, and accused several of the recipients — including the Hungarian Civil Liberties Union and the Hungarian Helsinki Committee, two of the country’s most prestigious watchdogs — of acting on behalf of foreign powers.

The Orban government later forced rights groups receiving more than 24,000 euros (roughly $30,000) from foreign sources to register with the authorities, and led a smear campaign against Mr. Soros and the groups he finances.

Over the winter, the government sent an opinion survey to every Hungarian household. The survey claimed Mr. Soros was leading a project — named the Soros Plan — to force Hungary to admit thousands of migrants, dismantle its border fences, and in the process “diminish the importance of the language and culture of European countries.” It was demonstrably false.

During the 1980s, Mr. Orban was a young liberal activist who studied civil society at Oxford University (financed by a Soros grant). But by 2014, when he won a third term as prime minister, he had decisively pivoted. In a meeting that April with Zoltan Illes, then the minister for environmental protection, he lambasted nongovernmental groups as foreign-funded enemies of the state.

“I would like,” Mr. Illes recalled Mr. Orban telling him, “to destroy all NGOs in this country.”

In many Western countries, theater is an avocation for elites. Not in Hungary. In a country of just 9.8 million people, the government oversees 60 theaters that sold 6.7 million tickets in 2016.

“It matters what people see on the stage,” said Robert Alfoldi, the former director of Hungary’s National Theater, “and that’s why it’s important for the government.”

During the past eight years, Fidesz has appointed scores of theater directors across the country. Most are not political ideologues, but the new directors do little to prompt reflection about contemporary issues, said Andrea Tompa, the former head of the Hungarian Theatre Critics’ Association.

“Most theaters,” she said, “have a socially unengaged message,” and a majority are overseen by directors appointed under Fidesz.

Perhaps the most provocative appointment has been of Gyorgy Dorner, a far-right director who now runs a theater in Budapest. In his 2011 application for the job, Mr. Dorner vowed that the theater, the Uj Szinhaz, would become “a repository for Hungarian values” and attract an audience of “Hungarian people who share the idea of the nation state.” Hungary, he said, had been “suffering under the social-liberal yoke.”

The Uj Szinhaz now performs only Hungarian plays, and holds an annual festival devoted to Christian theater. “It’s important for us to emphasize our identity because we could lose it in a few moments,” Mr. Dorner said in an interview, citing anxiety about immigration by “the Africans, the Middle Easterners.”

Another director, Mr. Alfoldi, has gotten a much cooler reception from the government. Mr. Alfoldi was appointed as director of Hungary’s National Theater while Mr. Orban was out of office, and was vilified in conservative circles for his provocative productions, some of which encouraged a debate about Hungarian national narratives.

At one point, he was summoned for questioning in Parliament. Then, when he applied to renew his contract in 2013, his application was rejected.

The government has also turned its attention to other branches of the arts. In 2011, a small independent group of right-wing artists — led by Gyorgy Fekete, the husband of Mr. Orban’s former spokeswoman — was turned overnight into a state institution.

The Hungarian Academy of Arts was enshrined as a state entity in the Hungarian Constitution, given jurisdiction over several artistic institutions and awarded the right to distribute state-funded stipends and prize money to artists Mr. Fekete deemed as displaying a “clear national commitment.”

Under Mr. Fekete, who retired late last year, the academy ignored and even condemned critics of Mr. Orban such as Gyorgy Konrad, a renowned author. Instead, it awarded monthly stipends in perpetuity to artists like Gyozo Somogyi, best known for depicting Hungarian military heroes, and Pal Ko, who has made a career from sculpting Hungarian historical figures.

When the University of Debrecen awarded an honorary doctorate last August to Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president and an ally of Mr. Orban, four academic departments protested the decision. It was an act of free expression central to the principles of the European Union.

Yet in response, the university leadership conducted an investigation into their dissent.

Though Mr. Orban did not personally order the investigation, many academics saw it as a sign of how much influence the government and its appointees have exerted over university decision-making since he was elected. Under Fidesz, the finances of each university department have been placed under the control of a government-appointed chancellor.

Officially, the loss of each department’s financial autonomy has been presented as a cost-saving measure. But for professors like Zoltan Fleck, who heads a law department at Hungary’s oldest college, Eotvos Lorand University, the real aim was to curb the academic autonomy of each department.

No one tells Dr. Fleck what to think. But the only research funding available to his department is allocated directly by the Ministry of Justice. For a time, that money was restricted to research on family law.

But while overall funding for universities dropped by 30 percent from 2010 to 2014, money was found to sustain two entirely new academic institutions.

The first — Professor Patyi’s National University for Public Service — was set up to train civil servants, policemen and soldiers, leading skeptics to fear that Fidesz hoped to rear a generation of Fidesz-friendly bureaucrats. Mr. Patyi, who also heads the Hungarian electoral commission, denies that the college has any political association.

The second, a think tank called Veritas, has a more demonstrably political aim. Its main mission is to provide revisionist interpretations of 20th-century Hungarian history — including the reign of Miklos Horthy, the autocrat who led Hungary before and during the Second World War.

Soon after Veritas was founded in 2014, its director, Sandor Szakaly, gave a sense of what this revision might involve. He described the deportation of Jews under Horthy in 1941 as a mere “police action against aliens.”

This kind of revisionism has also entered the national curriculum. High school graduates can now be tested on the new preamble to the Hungarian Constitution — a text which implies that Hungarian nationality is exclusively Christian, even though Hungary has a substantial Jewish minority. Its wording also reduces the agency of Hungarian officials in the final year of World War II, when hundreds of thousands of Hungarian Jews were murdered.

To exert greater influence over churches and synagogues themselves, Fidesz has stripped hundreds of religious institutions of their legal status, and scrapped their state funding.

For the government, this was a legitimate reform of an abused subsidy system. But critics said it punished preachers who criticized Mr. Orban, while ensuring the loyalty of the 32 religious institutions that were allowed to keep their legal status.

The Faith Church, a Pentecostal Christian group that still receives state funding, provided a telling recent example. The church was previously associated with the opposition.

This month, its leader, Sandor Nemeth, told his congregants to vote for Mr. Orban.

Over the last half decade, few stocks have been more beloved by investors and Wall Street analysts than Facebook. No wonder: After a rocky initial public offering in 2012, it has rolled over one obstacle after another, including the shift to mobile computing and the rise of photo sharing. It delivered revenue and user growth that surpassed even the most optimistic projections.

By the end of last year, Facebook had 2.2 billion active users. Its stock rose 53 percent last year, single-handedly accounting for 3.7 percent of the 21.8 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, according to S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. By early February, its market capitalization had surpassed $560 billion, making it the fifth most valuable company in the index.

By then Facebook alone accounted for nearly 2 percent of the S.&P. 500 index, which means that anyone who owns a broad-based stock mutual fund or index fund probably owns Facebook shares. Sophisticated investors and institutions, too, have considerable exposure: Goldman Sachs analysts reported last month that Facebook was the second most widely held stock (after Amazon) by hedge funds.

Over 90 percent of Wall Street analysts covering the company deemed Facebook a “buy” in early February, even though, at $195 a share, its price-to-earnings ratio, a common valuation measure, was a lofty 35. (The average ratio now is about 24; historically, it has been about 15.)

It was, as Wall Street pundits like to say, “priced for perfection.”

Whatever else can be said about Facebook’s recent tribulations, this much is certain: Its situation is far from perfection.

After revelations that data harvested from Facebook may have been used to try to influence Britain’s vote to leave the European Union and the United States presidential election, the social network giant faces multiple investigations in both Europe and the United States, along with potentially profit-crimping regulations and limits to its use of data. And investor retribution has been swift.

Since hitting its peak on Feb. 2, Facebook has lost an astonishing $100 billion in market capitalization. Its stock was trading midweek at close to $153 a share, a decline of nearly 22 percent. (It rebounded by about 4.5 percent Thursday and closed at $159.79.)

With Facebook’s plunge, investor concerns have spread to other social media and internet stocks with lofty multiples, like the so-called FANG stocks — Facebook, Apple and Amazon, Netflix and Google — and Twitter. They accounted for more than 10 percent of the S.&P. 500 at their peak.

“People who own an index fund need to realize how important Facebook is, and how big a role it and the FANG stocks played in the market’s rise,” said Howard Silverblatt, senior industry analyst for the S.&P. Dow Jones Indices, who oversees statistical analysis for the S.&P. 500. “The FANG leadership is faltering. Social media hasn’t faced much regulation, and now there’s a cloud hanging over those companies.”

In the midst of past Facebook euphoria, few saw this coming. One that did was Aiera, a robot that uses artificial intelligence to make stock recommendations. Aiera, an acronym for artificially intelligent equity research analyst, put out a “sell” recommendation for Facebook last fall.

So did Brian Wieser, a senior analyst at Pivotal Research Group  who covers media and internet companies. Although he was positive about the stock for most of its long climb, he downgraded Facebook to “sell” last summer based on regulatory and advertiser concerns and what he now considers “systemic management issues.”

Not only was it a lonely position, but “the stock went up and up,” Mr. Wieser told me this week. “But I thought the market was wrong, full stop.”

“I didn’t know what the catalyst would be, but at some point revenue growth had to slow and the margins go down,” he said. “There are practical limits. And I felt investors were looking at Facebook in much too positive a light. They just ignored all the bad things, and there were a lot of them.”

Then, when the news broke this month that a British firm, Cambridge Analytica, had used Facebook data for voter profiling, Mr. Wieser said, he thought it was “the most significant thing that had happened to Facebook since it became a public company.”

“Most people hadn’t given much thought to how their data is used,” he added. “But this really exposed the potential abuse. This is digital advertising’s original sin, and there’s going to be a reckoning that even now I don’t think most investors fully appreciate.”

The other Facebook skeptic, Aiera, can talk, but Wells Fargo — whose global internet analyst, Ken Sena, developed the robot along with Bryan Healey — wasn’t making its wunderkind available for interviews. But based on Aiera’s published comments, it issued its sell recommendation after analyzing the frequency of negative mentions in the media of Russia’s use of Facebook to influence the presidential election, as well as fundamental valuation and technical factors. (Aiera uses artificial intelligence to read and analyze a half-million pieces of data per day gleaned from the internet. It currently analyzes more than 1,600 stocks.)

Wells Fargo has stressed that Aiera remains in experimental mode, but one potential advantage is that it removes all human emotion from its analysis. Thus, Aiera was indifferent to the fact that nearly every other analyst had a buy recommendation on Facebook.

That included her putative master, Mr. Sena, who was thrust into the somewhat awkward position of explaining his own buy recommendation even as Aiera said sell.

When I spoke to him this week, Mr. Sena stressed that Aiera was a tool that could detect patterns and eliminate bias. “Aiera said election interference was a big deal, and it turned out it was a big deal,” Mr. Sena said. “But it’s not meant to supplant human judgments.”

He hasn’t changed his buy recommendation even though he agrees with Mr. Wieser that investors need to take threats of regulation seriously. “The conventional wisdom was that people don’t care that much about how their data is used,” Mr. Sena said. “They like the convenience of targeted advertising. But the level of public outcry over this is new.’’

“Facebook is going to have to do a lot of explaining,’’ he added. “I believe they have the capability and the technology to make the platform secure. But it’s going to distract from other initiatives investors are counting on for growth, like virtual reality and video content.”

Even so, Facebook’s decline has been so steep that even Mr. Wieser and Aiera may reassess their recommendations if they calculate that the stock has bottomed out.

When he last reiterated his sell recommendation, Mr. Wieser’s price target was $152. “I don’t want to be trigger happy on this,” he said. “It’s not clear yet what happens next. I want to fine-tune my thoughts before I revisit this.”

Aiera canceled her sell recommendation after the stock plunged. She hasn’t yet made a new recommendation. Of 45 analysts who cover Facebook, 41 currently have a “buy” or “overweight” recommendation, up from 39 a month ago.

Mr. Sena is even more bullish on Facebook than he was before, and hasn’t changed his price target of $230. “People are still glued to Facebook and Instagram,” he said.

Its price-to-earnings ratio is now just 28, barely above the market average, which makes it “the cheapest stock in our coverage area, and it has some of the best growth prospects,” he said. “There’s no way mathematically to justify a loss of more than $70 billion in market cap.”

Sarah Peveler lacks a support system that many older people count on: their adult children.

But Ms. Peveler, 71, who is divorced and childless, said she was determined not to let fear of an uncertain future get the best of her.

To help avoid the potential perils of a solitary old age, Ms. Peveler is carrying out a multipronged, go-it-alone plan. A key part of it was to find a small community where she could make friends and walk nearly everywhere, without worrying about the hazards of ice and snow.

A friend from North Carolina suggested that she look at Tarboro, in the eastern part of the state, about 75 miles from Raleigh. The city of 11,400 filled the bill, and she moved there several years before retiring in 2012 from her job as an executive at a Philadelphia-based nonprofit.

“At some point, I am not going to be able to drive,” she said. From her downtown home, “I can walk to Main Street, the library, the church, the drugstore and the Piggly Wiggly.”

Ms. Peveler paid $135,000 cash for a one-story house with longevity in mind. One of the three bedrooms, she said, can be converted into an apartment if she needs a caretaker to move in. She is thinking of checking out assisted-living facilities in case she ever needs more than home care. (There is a family history of dementia, she said.) Several mini-strokes caused some cognitive impairment, so her doctor monitors her regularly.

With a brother on the West Coast and no nieces or nephews to step in, Ms. Peveler has, through her church and several civic activities, developed a surrogate family of friends and neighbors, many of them several decades younger, who keep tabs on her. For added protection, she signed up for a service, EyeOn App, that signals three friends if she does not reply within a half-hour to scheduled alerts on her cellphone.

“Once, I didn’t respond, and everyone called me,” she said. “My next-door neighbor sent her daughter over.”

Although no plan is foolproof, Ms. Peveler said she was as confident as she could be. “I know people would have my back,” she said.

Ms. Peveler is among a growing number of older Americans who are unmarried and childless. By 2030, about 16 percent of women 80 to 84 will be childless, compared with about 12 percent in 2010, according to a 2013 report by AARP.

While Ms. Peveler is trying to control the risks of aging alone, many so-called elder orphans may not fare as well. Older single and childless people are at higher risk than those with children for facing medical problems, cognitive decline and premature death, according to a 2016 study led by Dr. Maria Torroella Carney, chief of geriatric and palliative medicine at the Northwell Health system on Long Island. The study noted that about 22 percent of people 65 and older either are childless or have children who are not in contact.

Adult children typically help elderly parents negotiate housing, social-service and health care options. Without such a fallback, elder orphans can reduce their risks by building their own support structures, Dr. Carney said.

“People who are aging alone need to make plans when they are independent and functional,” she said. “They need to learn about the resources in the community and the appropriate time to start using them.” Those services could include senior-friendly housing and the growing number of home-delivered products and services aimed at the aging-solo market, such as healthy meals and doctors who make house calls, she said.

One of the first steps childless people should take is to hire an elder law lawyer, who can draw up documents that will protect them if they become incapacitated. Childless people typically turn to a friend, a lawyer, clergy, or a niece or nephew to make medical decisions, according to experts. A bank’s trust unit can take on financial tasks, with a friend, a relative or a lawyer monitoring the bank’s decisions.

Christina Lesher, an elder law lawyer in Houston, suggests appointing a “micro board,” which includes the lawyer, the health care and financial agents, an accountant and a geriatric care manager. “The board can step in if a client cannot make decisions,” Ms. Lesher said. The client could assign a network of friends and neighbors to call the lawyer in an emergency or if they notice any cognitive decline.

As for housing, Dr. Carney recommends that people aging alone consider a senior-friendly “congregate living” arrangement. Besides offering a variety of services, such housing can lessen isolation, which her research shows can lead to physical and cognitive decline. If that is not possible, she said, elder orphans should move closer to shopping, medical care, recreation and senior support services.

One housing option with a built-in support system is a continuing care retirement community. Residents usually start in an independent living unit and, depending on the care needed, move to an on-site assisted-living unit or a skilled-nursing facility. Entrance and monthly fees tend to be hefty, however. Typical entry fees range from just over $100,000 to more than $400,000 while monthly services fees can range from $2,000 to $4,000, according to MyLifeSite, which tracks the pricing and financial information of more than 800 C.C.R.C.s.

With no one to oversee their care, elder orphans who want to remain in their own homes for as long as possible could enlist a geriatric care manager, who monitors elderly clients and coordinates care.

In Washington, D.C., clients of Iona Senior Services, for example, can arrange for a care manager to be on call as their health deteriorates, said Deborah Rubenstein, director of consultation, care management and counseling programs. If a client is discharged from a hospital, for example, the care manager, in consultation with the designated health care agent, would arrange for rehabilitation or home care, she said.

“More and more people were coming to us and saying, ‘I’m O.K. now, but I’m realistic enough to know my health status could change,’” Ms. Rubenstein said. Iona charges $150 an hour.

Meanwhile, a growing number of volunteer neighborhood groups are providing both social connections and practical help to older people who are at home alone. More than 200 organizations in the Village to Village Network, including “villages” in the New York area, provide rides to medical appointments, snow removal, home repairs and computer support. Villages in 150 additional neighborhoods are in development. Tax-deductible membership fees can range from $100 to $400.

Entrepreneurs and companies, many nationwide, are moving into the so-called longevity market. On-demand services, accessible by a phone app or a computer, can connect people to personal assistants and food delivery.

“The on-demand marketplace will be the best friend of elder orphans,” said Mary Furlong, a Silicon Valley consultant to companies that cater to seniors.

For example, the ride-hailing service Lyft is working with health care systems and retirement communities to provide rides to nonemergency medical appointments and other destinations. And because financial acuity often declines with age, childless singles can enroll in a service such as EverSafe, which monitors accounts for unusual spending and alerts the client or a trusted advocate of possible fraud.

In-home technology, like medication reminders, also can help people live alone safely longer, experts say. Besides her EyeOn home-monitoring system, Ms. Peveler uses an Amazon Alexa device.

“If I am reading a recipe, I can tell her what to put on a shopping list,” said Ms. Peveler, who has a harder time remembering some details since her mini-strokes. And just for fun, she may tell Alexa “to make cat noises, and one of my cats goes nuts.”

For those aging solo, expanding a social network is essential, according to experts on aging. Two years ago, Carol Marak, who is in her mid-60s and lives alone in Dallas, started the Elder Orphan Facebook Group.

“I wanted a place to feel less lonely and to connect with others in the same situation,” said Ms. Marak, who is also the spokeswoman for SeniorCare.com, a site that provides information on local care options. About 6,500 childless singles, mostly women, are members, she said.

Ms. Marak said she was struck by the number of members who worried about being “isolated and disconnected from the community.” She said she was trying hard to create her own social connections. She moved from a suburban house to a downtown condominium building, where she is making new friends. And she has organized brunches for Dallas members of the Facebook page.

Determined to stay healthy for as long as possible, Ms. Marak said she walks six miles a day and eats mostly vegan meals. “I need to keep stronger because I am totally responsible for myself,” she said.

LOS ANGELES — During her entire working life in the United States, Carmen Queveda has hidden in plain sight. As a babysitter, the undocumented immigrant has taken children under her care to play in the park. As a housekeeper, she starts each day taking a leisurely walk with her boss’s two dogs.

But Ms. Queveda, the mother of a 14-year-old American boy, is not about to step out of her house to participate in a census that inquires whether she herself is a citizen.

“I would never answer, because I don’t have papers,” the 46-year-old native of Guatemala said as she set out for a walk in the Hollywood Hills on Tuesday morning, a husky and German shepherd in tow. “Obviously, I am afraid. I have a son.”

The Commerce Department announced Monday that the 2020 census will include a question about citizenship, a measurement Trump administration officials say is important to help monitor voter demographics and protect minority voting rights.

Critics contend that asking the question will inhibit participation among immigrants who are nervous about government queries in a highly charged political environment. The result, these critics say, could be an undercount in areas of the country most heavily populated by new immigrants.

“The immigrant community, documented or not, will think twice before sharing information with the government,” said Ali Noorani, executive director of the National Immigration Forum, an advocacy organization in Washington, D.C., who deemed the citizenship question “data-based fearmongering.”

Advocates said that immigrants feared they could face deportation if their information was turned over to immigration authorities.

During World War I, the Census Bureau shared with the military the names of men who were of draft age. During World War II, the bureau provided the Secret Service with the names and addresses of some Japanese-Americans in the Washington, D.C., area as part of an investigation. And in 2000, the bureau acknowledged and apologized for sharing data on Japanese-Americans living on the West Coast to help the military relocate them to internment camps after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941.

The law was changed in 1978 to prohibit the Census Bureau from sharing information with other government agencies for a period of 72 years after it collects personal data.

News of the citizenship question this week made headlines in Spanish-language papers and on television, which is how Cesar Morio, an undocumented construction worker from Mexico, heard about it.

“I know that no parent in my neighborhood is going to be opening the door for anyone doing a survey,” said Mr. Morio, 32, a stucco plasterer helping to erect a multimillion-dollar home in Los Angeles. He is single and does not have children.

Some advocates accused the administration of intentionally intimidating immigrant communities, and vowed to mount a campaign to encourage people to participate, rather than shun, census takers.

“Their goal is to try to make invisible our immigrant community in the census and to create a situation in which civic engagement action, to be counted, becomes risky,” said Angelica Salas, executive director of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights of Los Angeles.

“But we are going to make sure that our community understands that they count for the United States and should participate. We are going to fight it,” she said.

In Texas, home to the second-largest population of unauthorized immigrants in the country, the citizenship question could have a chilling effect on participation and lead to economic impacts down the road, some officials said.

“We know this question is going to have a detrimental impact on our efforts and is going to make people wary of responding,” said Erika Reyna, who is coordinating census efforts in Hidalgo County in southern Texas — in part because she and others determined that the Hispanic population had been undercounted in the state in 2000 and 2010.

“An undercount will mean fewer resources in an area that is high-need and growing,” Ms. Reyna said.

She said the county is in sore need of funding for education, transportation, health and other services.

The question about citizenship could have a disproportionate impact on the count in red states, like Georgia, where the Latino population is relatively new, skews undocumented and is largely Spanish speaking. In the 1990s, immigrants flocked to fast-growing Atlanta to build homes, work in restaurants and perform other, low-skilled work.

The state’s one million Latinos now account for about 9 percent of Georgia’s population. About a third of them are undocumented immigrants, many of them parents to children born in the United States who could be undercounted, according to the Georgia Association of Latino Elected Officials.

“We have many mixed-status families, and given this administration’s record on being anti-immigrant and Latino, the question will sow fear and confusion,” said Jerry Gonzalez, executive director of the association.

A coalition of state attorneys general advised the Commerce Department last month against including the citizenship question, saying that in addition to undermining participation among immigrants, it would result in an undercount of the overall population in many areas. The state of California has already filed suit, arguing that including the question is a violation of the United States Constitution, and Attorney General Eric Schneiderman of New York announced he would lead a separate multistate legal challenge.

The decennial census influences political representation in Congress and federal funding for an assortment of programs. The Commerce Department says that between 1820 and 1950, almost every decennial census asked a question on citizenship in some form.

The citizenship question already appears on the bureau’s American Community Survey, an annual count that reaches a smaller number of households. It asks whether a person is a citizen, by birth or by naturalization, but does not ask about legal or illegal immigration status.

About half of the country’s 44 million immigrants are American citizens, according to the latest American Community Survey. Among those who have not taken the oath, about half are undocumented, according to the Pew Research Center.

Once an undocumented immigrant, Gladis Perez benefited from a 1986 amnesty program to legalize her status. The native of Guatemala became a citizen five years ago.

“I wouldn’t answer any questions before,” she said as she made her way to work on Tuesday. “I wouldn’t even open the door. If I were still undocumented, I would avoid this survey at any cost.”

BURBANK, Calif. — Irma Mangayan was lathering and rinsing a 92-year-old woman in Room 413 one recent afternoon when she received a page from another room. An incontinent resident had an accident, and Ms. Mangayan would have to clean it up.

Before her shift was over at Belmont Village Senior Living, Ms. Mangayan would hoist women and men into their wheelchairs, escort residents using walkers downstairs to the dining room and then back and perform myriad other tasks that they once could do for themselves.

Ms. Mangayan is a personal care aide, a grueling and low-paid profession that happens to be one of the country’s fastest growing. It is also increasingly filled with foreign-born, low-skilled workers like Ms. Mangayan, the kind now at the center of a national debate on immigration.

A proposal favored by a number of Congressional Republicans and the Trump administration would replace the current family-preference immigration system, which critics call “chain migration,” with one that favors skilled immigrants, while reducing admissions over all. Democrats have balked at the plan, while some Republicans have insisted it be a condition of any bill that legalizes the undocumented young adults, known as Dreamers, who could soon lose their protection against deportation. Several attempts to reach a deal have failed this year, and a spending bill passed on Friday did not resolve the issue, leaving the fight over immigration reform for another day.

“It is time to create a merit-based immigration system that makes sense for a modern economy,” the White House said in a statement last month, “selecting new arrivals based on their ability to support themselves financially and to make positive contributions to U.S. society.”

But economists do not necessarily agree.

Those who study immigration and labor patterns have questioned the wisdom of restricting family-based immigration, a crucial source of low-skilled workers, many of whom hail from countries like Mexico and the Philippines, where Ms. Mangayan, 47, is from.

“In any plausible future scenario, the U.S. needs far more new low-skilled workers than high-skilled workers,” said Michael Clemens, an economist at the Center for Global Development, a Washington think tank, “so many that it will be impossible for native labor to fill all those jobs, even if native workers wanted to.”

According to a Bureau of Labor Statistics analysis, among the 10 occupations expected to grow the most through 2026, only three require university degrees, all of them digital or data-focused: software developers, statisticians and mathematicians.

The two that will require the most new workers: personal care and home health aides, with 1.2 million new positions between them.

About 10,000 baby boomers turn 65 every day, and more than half will need long-term care, according to the Pew Research Center. Already, home-care agencies and elderly-care facilities are struggling to recruit.

“If one of our aides is sick or has an emergency, it’s very difficult to find a backup,” said Kevin Smith, the president of Best of Care in the Boston area, who taps into the large Haitian and Brazilian communities in Massachusetts.

In 2017, 26 percent of personal care aides and home health aides were foreign born, a high, according to an analysis of official data by Brian Schaitkin, a senior economist at the Conference Board. In New York, 62 percent of home aides were foreign born. In California, Massachusetts and New Jersey, foreigners represented nearly half of them.

Lupe Mercado, a Mexican immigrant who works for an agency called 24Hr HomeCare in Los Angeles, has endeared herself to clients with dementia who initially cursed and flung food at her. One of them recently died holding her hand, Ms. Mercado noted, brandishing a picture of the woman on her cellphone.

On a recent afternoon, she doted on Olive Tanaka, 92. “I’m spoiled by her,” said Ms. Tanaka, a line dancer in her day who is now widowed, blind in one eye and needs round-the-clock care since suffering a fall.

Having entered the United States illegally, Ms. Mercado benefited from a 1986 amnesty law signed by President Ronald Reagan, obtaining a green card and eventually becoming a citizen.

“It doesn’t pay so much, but I love my job,” said Ms. Mercado, who earns $12 an hour and supplements her pay by taking private clients on her days off.

Proponents of restricting immigration say the low wages in her field — and in other workplaces where immigrants have a foothold, like construction, farms, and restaurant kitchens — are a prime reason immigrants have begun to supplant American workers in the jobs.

Some of those other professions, too, face worker shortages. A survey in September by the Associated General Contractors of America found that 70 percent of construction firms were having difficulty finding bricklayers, roofers and electricians, among others. Last August, the restaurant and accommodation sector had 742,000 vacancies, a historic high, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Stemming the flow of low-skilled immigrants could pressure employers to raise wages, compelling many Americans, including millions who are chronically unemployed, to get back to work. “It may draw all these people, or some fraction of these people, into the labor force,” posited Steven Camarota, research director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which supports curbs on immigration.

Indeed, more people would do blue-collar work they now shun if wages were higher — but not enough of them would, according to Chris Tilly, a labor economist at the University of California, Los Angeles.

“Wage is not the main issue,” he said. “There are also expectations and status. Not everybody wants to work with their hands touching people; not everybody will do dirty work.”

Supporters of an immigration overhaul cite other reasons the country should be choosier about whom it lets in. The Trump administration has also framed it as a national security issue, noting several cases in which terror suspects came to the United States through family connections. Immigrants are also more likely to use welfare programs than native-born Americans, owing largely to their comparatively low skill levels upon arrival, the Center for Immigration Studies says, citing Census Bureau data.

Under a Senate bill introduced by the Republicans Tom Cotton of Arkansas and David Perdue of Georgia, and supported by the White House, citizens and permanent residents, or green card holders, could continue to bring spouses and children under 18 into the United States. But they would no longer be able to sponsor parents, adult children, siblings, nephews and nieces.

The bill would also create a point system for admission based on factors including education, English skills and job offers in the United States, and it would cut the overall number of green cards awarded each year by half, to 500,000.

Employers who rely on immigrant labor are anxious about what will happen in Washington. Senior-care agencies in particular are worried because many are dependent on Medicaid and Medicare and so cannot, they say, easily raise wages to make their jobs more attractive to native-born workers.

If Congress makes it harder for relatives to immigrate, “Where are all these workers going to come from?” asked Patricia Will, the founder of Belmont Village, a Houston-based network of upscale facilities that employs 4,000 people in several states.

Ms. Mangayan, who makes $29,000 a year plus benefits at Belmont Village in Burbank, came to the United States in 1997 after marrying an American citizen, and she is now a citizen herself. She would have been able to immigrate under the proposed rules, though many of her co-workers would not.

Ms. Mangayan and her husband, a customer-service representative at the airport, earn enough to afford a $1,200-a-month two-bedroom apartment, their 23-year-old son’s college tuition and occasional travel to the Philippines. Ms. Mangayan cuts hair on the side to make extra money.

Ms. Mangayan, who also has a 14-year-old daughter, said that one day, “I would like to have at least a condo.”

Not long after arriving for her 3 p.m. to 11 p.m. shift one recent afternoon, she was already darting from room to room.

In Room 411, she improvised sign language to communicate with Bernard Bragg, an 89-year-old who achieved fame decades ago as a deaf actor.

Mr. Bragg, asked what he thought of Ms. Mangayan, pointed to her, placed his hands over his heart and smiled lovingly. He then flapped his arms to suggest she was an angel.

Velma Vincent, in Room 406, credited Ms. Mangayan with restoring her will to live and ability to walk after her husband died.

“I was a goner,” recalled Ms. Vincent, 88, who was resplendent in a bright-red blouse and white slacks with matching red necklace, earrings and nail polish. “Irma came in and encouraged me.”

Ms. Mangayan had coaxed Ms. Vincent to get out of her wheelchair, practice baby steps down the hall, going farther and farther each time. Soon, Ms. Vincent was mobile — and independent — with her walker, playing blackjack and Bingo, attending church and visiting Belmont Village’s beauty salon.

“My family will be forever grateful,” said her son, Bob Vincent. “that Irma emigrated from the Philippines to the United States, giving my mom a quality of life that she would not enjoy were it not for Irma.”

Citing President Trump’s “racially charged language,” a federal judge in Brooklyn ruled on Thursday that a lawsuit seeking to preserve a program that protects hundreds of thousands of young undocumented immigrants from deportation could continue.

The order, by Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis of Federal District Court in Brooklyn, was the strongest sign so far of judicial support for the program known as DACA, or Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, which has for months been the subject of a heated debate in Congress.

In October, lawyers for the Justice Department filed a motion to dismiss the Brooklyn lawsuit, claiming that the plaintiffs in the case — a coalition of immigration lawyers and a group of Democratic state attorneys general — had failed to make a persuasive case that DACA was rolled back in September because of a racial animus toward Latinos.

But in his order rejecting the motion to dismiss, Judge Garaufis pointed directly at Mr. Trump, noting that his numerous “racial slurs” and “epithets” — both as a candidate and from the White House — had created a “plausible inference” that the decision to end DACA violated the equal protection clause of the Constitution.

“One might reasonably infer,” Judge Garaufis wrote, “that a candidate who makes overtly bigoted statements on the campaign trail might be more likely to engage in similarly bigoted action in office.”

In February, Judge Garaufis issued an injunction ordering the Trump administration to keep DACA in place as he considered the legal merits of the suit. That injunction echoed a similar one issued in January  by Judge William Alsup of Federal District Court in San Francisco, who is hearing a separate but related suit.

The ruling on Thursday took the legal process in New York one step further, strongly hinting at what Judge Garaufis thought about the suit’s central claims. It did not offer a conclusive win for the plaintiffs, only allowing the case to move forward toward a summary judgment decision or a trial. But it was notable for its strong language suggesting that there may have been an improper racial motivation for rescinding the DACA program.

Of the nearly 800,000 immigrants who are protected by DACA, referred to as Dreamers, more than 90 percent hail from Latin America, and almost 80 percent are originally from Mexico. In his order, Judge Garaufis specifically mentioned Mr. Trump’s statements about Mexico sending “criminals” and “rapists” to the United States and his verbal attacks on an American-born jurist of Mexican descent, Judge Gonzalo P. Curiel of Federal District Court in San Diego. Judge Garaufis also cited Mr. Trump’s assertions — both before and after his inauguration — that Latino immigrants were “animals” and “bad hombres.”

While the judge noted that looking for racial bias, especially in “campaign-trail statements,” was a potentially fraught process that could result in an “evidentiary snark hunt,” he concluded that his court could not “bury its head in the sand when faced with overt expressions of prejudice.”

In a separate prong of the ruling, Judge Garaufis said that the decision to rescind DACA violated the Administrative Procedure Act, or APA, a federal law that bars the government from repealing policies arbitrarily, capriciously or without a rational basis.

The plaintiffs immediately welcomed the ruling as yet another victory in the case.

“We’re pleased the court ruled that our substantive equal protection and APA claims can proceed,” said Amy Spitalnick, a spokeswoman for Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York State attorney general. “We look forward to continuing our litigation to protect Dreamers and New York’s businesses, economy, and institutions.”

Jessica Hanson, a lawyer for the National Immigration Law Center, said that the ruling “again acknowledged that our brave plaintiffs present important claims, including that the decision to terminate DACA was rooted in Trump’s bias against Latinos.”

Devin O’Malley, a spokesman for the Justice Department, did not address Judge Garaufis’s criticisms of Mr. Trump. In a statement, he said that DACA was “an unlawful circumvention of Congress” and that the Trump administration was “within its lawful authority” in winding it down.

“The Justice Department will continue to vigorously defend this position,” Mr. O’Malley added, “and looks forward to vindicating its position in further litigation.”

Judge Garaufis’s ruling was not the first to cite Mr. Trump’s public statements. Judges around the country have also mentioned the president’s tweets and remarks while issuing orders about his travel ban and decision to bar transgender people from serving in the military.

WASHINGTON — At least 12 states signaled Tuesday that they would sue to block the Trump administration from adding a question about citizenship to the 2020 census, arguing that the change would cause fewer Americans to be counted and violate the Constitution.

The New York State attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, said he was leading a multistate lawsuit to stop the move, and officials in Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Washington said they would join the effort. The State of California filed a separate lawsuit late Monday night.

“The census is supposed to count everyone,” said Attorney General Maura Healey of Massachusetts. “This is a blatant and illegal attempt by the Trump administration to undermine that goal, which will result in an undercount of the population and threaten federal funding for our state and cities.”

The Constitution requires that every resident of the United States be counted in a decennial census, whether or not they are citizens. The results are used not just to redraw political boundaries from school boards to House seats, but to allocate hundreds of billions of dollars in federal grants and subsidies to where they are needed most. Census data provide the baseline for planning decisions made by corporations and governments alike.

Opponents of the added citizenship question said it was certain to depress response to the census from noncitizens and even legal immigrants. Critics accused the administration of adding the question to reduce the population count in the predominantly Democratic areas where more immigrants reside, in advance of state and national redistricting in 2021.

The Trump administration defended the citizenship question by saying it was needed to better enforce the Voting Rights Act, which relies on accurate estimates of voting-eligible populations.

The White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said in a briefing that the decision to gather citizenship data through the decennial census was “necessary for the Department of Justice to protect voters.”

“I think that it is going to determine the individuals in our country, and provide information that allows us to comply with our own laws and with our own procedures,” she said.

Asked whether there would be outreach to ensure participation in immigrant-heavy regions like California, Ms. Sanders said she was “not aware of those specifics.”

Ms. Sanders also said the citizenship question had “been included in every census since 1965, with the exception of 2010, when it was removed.”

In fact, various citizenship questions have appeared in many censuses since 1850, especially during periods of high immigration. But it was dropped from the 1960 general census (there was no census in 1965) and relegated in 1970 to a longer list of questions that were asked of a small minority of residents. After 2000, the question was asked only on the American Community Survey, a separate mandatory poll of a fraction of the population that is conducted more frequently than the census.

Critics noted that the citizenship question was added at the last minute — the deadline for proposing new questions for the 2020 head count is April 1 — and that it sidestepped the years of vetting undergone by every other question that will be asked. This month, they added, President Trump’s re-election campaign used the addition of a citizenship question in an emailed fund-raising appeal.

Mr. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, said that adding the question was a “reckless decision to suddenly abandon nearly 70 years of practice.” He argued that the move “will create an environment of fear and distrust in immigrant communities that would make impossible both an accurate census and the fair distribution of federal tax dollars.”

In a seven-page announcement released late Monday, Wilbur L. Ross Jr., the secretary of commerce, foresaw those concerns, and sought to allay them. Decades of experience with citizenship questions on earlier censuses and other surveys, he stated, indicate that including it on the 2020 form would not deter people from volunteering to be counted. And he noted that other democracies, from Australia to the United Kingdom, routinely ask about citizenship in their head counts without any difficulty.

Mr. Ross, whose department oversees the Census Bureau, acknowledged that both outside experts and leaders within the bureau had been opposed to the change. But he said that “neither the Census Bureau nor the concerned stakeholders could document that the response rate would in fact decline materially.”

And although the citizenship question was not tested for inclusion on the 2020 form, he said, it is used in the American Community Survey.

Kenneth Prewitt, a director of the Census Bureau under President Clinton, dismissed the administration’s rationale that the question is needed to enforce the Voting Rights Act.

“It’s certainly unnecessary,” said Mr. Prewitt, now a professor of public affairs at Columbia University. “The Voting Rights Act is being administered very well with data from the American Community Survey. The Justice Department has ruled on that a number of times over the last 15 years.”

The decision to add a question potentially throws a new degree of uncertainty into census preparations that already are well behind schedule and starved for money. The only full dress rehearsal of the 2020 census, unfolding this month in Providence County, R.I., has been scaled back in some areas. Tens of thousands of forms mailed to local residents this month do not contain the citizenship question.

Experts dismissed Mr. Ross’s statement that the citizenship question did not need further testing, arguing that the census and the American Community Survey differ in almost every aspect, from size to public awareness to whether a response is required. “When you do this once every 10 years, for 340 million people, you’ve got to get it right,” said William H. Frey, a University of Michigan demographer.

On Tuesday, critics of Mr. Ross’s decision made available a letter sent to Mr. Ross in January from six former directors of the Census Bureau who served under both Republican and Democratic administrations. The letter stated that they were “deeply concerned” that adding the citizenship question would “considerably increase the risks to the 2020 enumeration.”

“There is a great deal of evidence that even small changes in survey question order, wording and instructions can have significant, and often unexpected, consequences for the rate, quality and truthfulness of response,” said the former directors, who included Mr. Prewitt. “The effect of adding a citizenship question to the 2020 census on data quality and census accuracy, therefore, is completely unknown.”

Several of the states suing the Trump administration are run by Democrats, who risk losing representation if the census undercounts people of color.

Carmen Queveda, an undocumented immigrant in Los Angeles, said on Tuesday she was not about to step out of her house to participate in a census that inquires whether she is a citizen.

“I would never answer, because I don’t have papers,” said the 46-year-old native of Guatemala, who is also the mother of a 14-year-old American boy. “Obviously, I am afraid. I have a son.”

The last official estimate of the number of undocumented immigrants in the United States, made in 2012 by the Department of Homeland Security, placed the number at 11.4 million.

At a morning E.S.L. class in Queens, N.Y., at Sunnyside Community Services, about 30 students hailing from Spanish-speaking countries, the Middle East and Southeast Asia, were asked about the citizenship question by Johan Lopez, New York City’s director of adult and immigrant services. Mr. Lopez said their answer alarmed him.

“I asked them directly how this would affect their ability to respond or whether they would even open the door,” he said. All but one “suggested that they likely wouldn’t open the door.”

Arctic foxes are endangered in Sweden, Norway and Finland, scattered in isolated populations that can fall victim to severe inbreeding, further threatening their survival.

That’s what happened to a group descended from six white foxes that settled in the early 2000s on Helagsfjället, the highest mountain in southern Sweden.

But in 2010, a local ranger noticed something different: slate-colored or “blue” Arctic foxes, which had to be newcomers. The immigrants presented a rare opportunity for scientists to study what happens when new genetic material flows into a small, isolated population threatened with extinction.

In a study published Wednesday in Proceedings of the Royal Society B, scientists from Sweden and Norway reported that just three new males dramatically reduced inbreeding and produced a generation of more robust offspring in the Helagsfjället arctic fox population.

The findings lend support to a disputed conservation strategy called genetic rescue, which involves introducing genetic diversity to boost the survival chances of small, inbred populations, said Jennifer Neuwald, an assistant professor of biology at Colorado State University who was not involved in the new study.

“This study showed that having those new individuals bring in new DNA actually had an effect,” she said.

Arctic foxes — which remain abundant in parts of North America and Russia — come in two color morphs. White morphs are snowy in winter and brown-grey in summer, while blue morphs stay a ravishing indigo, brown and charcoal mix year-round.

The blue foxes that arrived in Helagsfjället had come from a captive breeding and restoration program funded by the Norwegian government. In 2009, the program released two blue brothers and another, unrelated white male in southern Norway. The three migrated about 150 miles to the Swedish subpopulation.

Malin Hasselgren, a Ph.D. student in zoology at Stockholm University, led efforts to construct a giant family tree with DNA sampled from 543 foxes, or 105 litters, born in Helagsfjället between 2000 and 2015.

In the five years following the arrival of the new males, the population of the Helagsfjället clan nearly doubled. Over the same period, inbreeding also decreased by 43 percent, which is “really rapid,” Ms. Hasselgren said.

Perhaps more important, the first generation of pups born to immigrant fathers was more evolutionarily fit than inbred pups: The former were almost twice as likely to survive their first year of life, and had higher breeding success.

These higher survival and breeding rates help the authors “make the case that a reduction in inbreeding is helping this population grow,” said Sarah Fitzpatrick, an assistant professor of integrative biology at Michigan State University not involved in the research.

A larger concern is that the benefits of genetic rescue will be short-lived.

In 1997, a single male wolf immigrated from Canada to Isle Royale in Michigan, causing inbreeding levels to plummet by 89 percent in four years. But then his DNA overtook the entire Isle Royale wolf population, leading to a climb in inbreeding and genetic defects that proved to be devastating. As of this winter, Isle Royale may be down to its last wolf.

Adding new individuals to a threatened population can also introduce disease or swamp local adaptations. Decades ago, conservationists moved some ibexes, a type of wild goat, from the Middle East to mate with a dwindling population in what was then Czechoslovakia. But the resulting hybrids ultimately could not survive the cold, causing the entire population to go extinct.

Still, genetic rescue has had successful outcomes too, for panthers in Florida, bighorn sheep in Montana, vipers in Sweden and others. Many conservationists believe it’s a tool with increasing potential, as wildlife populations become more and more fragmented by human activities.

Dr. Neuwald emphasized that the key is “going in with your eyes wide open,” by having considered the genetic, ecological and social compatibility between transplants and existing populations.

If that’s done, and if genetic rescue gives a species its best chance of survival, “it’s worth giving it a try,” she said.

NEW DELHI — An Indian publisher has removed from its online store a children’s book that included Hitler on a list of world leaders who “devoted their lives for the betterment of their country and people.”

The book, titled “Leaders” but previously listed on the publisher’s website as “Great Leaders,” spotlights 11 world figures “who will inspire you.” On its cover, Hitler is featured alongside Barack Obama, Nelson Mandela and Mohandas K. Gandhi, among others.

Published by the Pegasus imprint of B. Jain Publishing Group of India, the book came under fire this month after the Simon Wiesenthal Center, a global human rights organization researching the Holocaust and hate in historical and contemporary contexts, called the decision to include Hitler an “abomination.”

In a statement released this week, Rabbi Abraham Cooper, associate director of the center, hailed the removal of the 48-page book from the publisher’s online store, where it was sold for about $1.70.

“The children of this great nation should be reading ‘The Diary of Anne Frank,’ ” he said, “not a picture book that lists Hitler as a ‘great’ leader alongside Gandhi, Mandela, Modi, Churchill and Obama.”

Annshu Juneja, the publishing manager for Pegasus, did not respond to a question by email about why the book had been taken off the website. It is unclear when the book was removed.

In parts of Asia, atrocities committed in Nazi Germany are poorly understood, and Hitler is sometimes glorified as a strong, effective leader.

Rohee Dasgupta, an associate professor at the Jindal School of International Affairs who studies Jewish culture and identity, said that India’s history curriculum failed to educate students about the Holocaust.

In 2004, high school textbooks used in the state of Gujarat spoke highly of Hitler, saying he had “made untiring efforts to make Germany self-reliant” and “instilled the spirit of adventure in the common people.” The book mentions only briefly the extermination of millions of Jews and others during World War II.

“From the Indian perspective, it’s an ignorance of history,” Ms. Dasgupta said.

NEW YORK —  Federal authorities say an immigration detainee about to be deported to Senegal escaped custody at New York's Kennedy Airport and fled in a taxi.

A spokesman for Immigration and Customs Enforcement says Mohamadou Lamine Mbacke was in the custody of its agents at the airport Tuesday night when he bolted and got into a cab.

The agency says Mbacke entered the country lawfully in 2005 but violated the terms of his status.

Mbacke was ordered deported in September 2015. ICE spokesman Khaalid Walls says the 31-year-old Mbacke has criminal convictions for weapons offenses.

Walls says Mbacke had not been located Wednesday.

SANTA ANA, Calif. —  In a dramatic one-two punch, leaders in California's Orange County voted Tuesday to condemn the state's sanctuary law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities and to join a Trump administration lawsuit that seeks to overturn it.

The all-Republican Board of Supervisors in the county that is home to 3.2 million people and many immigrants approved the measures by unanimous votes. One of the five supervisors was absent.

The meeting produced a raucous debate between those who say the moves uphold the rule of law and draw a line on illegal immigration and others who said it was racist and more about politics than public safety.

Supervisor Michelle Steel, an immigrant from South Korea, told the crowd that fixing the country's immigration system will take time. "Along the way, law enforcement should absolutely cooperate fully within the constraints of federal law," she said.

The votes were the most dramatic development in a growing counter-movement in more conservative-leaning areas of the state against the sanctuary law, which the Democrat-controlled Legislature approved last year as the Trump administration called for more stringent immigration enforcement and a wall on the entirety of the U.S.-Mexico border.

The U.S. Justice Department headed by Attorney General Jeff Sessions sued California earlier this month over three pro-immigrant state laws, including the one that bars local law enforcement officials in many cases from turning over prisoners to immigration authorities.

The lawsuit has highlighted longstanding divisions over immigration in California. For years, some local governments have sought to help federal immigration agents pick up prisoners from their jails to prevent them from being released back into their communities, while others have tried to keep their distance to encourage immigrant residents to trust police enough to come forward to report crimes.

In Orange County, the small city of Los Alamitos recently approved an ordinance to exempt itself from the state's sanctuary law while leaders in the county seat of Santa Ana — a self-declared immigrant sanctuary — will consider filing an amicus brief to support California in federal court.

Legal experts and immigrant advocates have said cities can't simply opt out of state law as Los Alamitos has proposed doing, and will face lawsuits if they try.

Orange County, which is home to Disneyland and wealthy beach communities where many people vacation, has long been known as a GOP stronghold, but Democrats have gained significant ground in recent years. Hillary Clinton won more votes than Trump in the county in the 2016 election.

The county also is becoming more diverse. Thirty percent of its residents are immigrants, mostly from Latin America and Asia, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. And three of the five supervisors are Asian-American.

Immigrant advocates rallied outside Tuesday's meeting, some holding signs with slogans such as "Melt ICE," a reference to Immigration and Customs Enforcement that enforces immigration laws. They felt the vote was a step back for a county that had been changing.

"History tells us that we will win. So I will be able to look in my children's and grandchildren's eyes and tell them I was on the right side of history," Bethany Anderson of Fullerton told supervisors. "Will you be able to do that?"

But others welcomed the county's decision to file a motion to intervene as a plaintiff in the lawsuit, and railed about the need to stop illegal immigration. About a dozen people wearing American flags and holding signs reading "Support Our Constitution" cheered when supervisors voted to condemn the state's law.

"We cannot have all the states with different immigration laws. It just doesn't make sense," Doris Matyasovich told the board. "Our constitutional republic depends on following the rule of law."

Sameer Ahmed, a staff attorney at the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California, said some cities appear to be discussing largely political resolutions, not local laws. But the idea that an area as large as Orange County would take such a stand worries immigrant advocates, he said.

The county also moved this week to improve communication with federal immigration agents by publishing the release dates of inmates online. The sheriff's department used to screen inmates in the county's jails to help Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents identify those subject to deportation but had to stop when the state law passed.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement Deputy Director Tom Homan welcomed the move and said the agency continues to seek to cooperate with local law enforcement who want to assist.

NEW YORK —  The Trump administration has sharply curtailed a once-common practice of granting long-term reprieves to immigrants targeted for deportation, a Reuters analysis of court records shows, adding to an already huge backlog of cases in U.S. immigration courts.

The trend underscores how the Trump administration's broad crackdown on illegal immigration has sometimes had unintended consequences. Attorney-General Jeff Sessions had vowed to reduce that case backlog, but the government's aggressive opposition to reprieves has caused the opposite to happen.

Under a procedure known as “administrative closure,” judges can indefinitely shelve deportation cases of immigrants who have lived illegally for years in the United States but have not committed serious crimes and have strong family or other ties in the country. The immigrants are not granted full legal status and their cases can be reopened at any time. In the interim they can remain in the country and often are eligible to work legally.

The practice became more common after the Obama administration instructed prosecutors in 2011 to prioritize immigration cases involving criminals. Closures accelerated further after a 2012 decision by the Board of Immigration Appeals, which gave judges additional authority to close cases.

As a result, the number of shelved cases rose steadily for several years. In the last year of the Obama administration, more than 56,000 such cases were closed, the Reuters analysis of court records found.

In the first year after Donald Trump became president, the trend was sharply reversed, with about 20,000 cases closed, 64 percent fewer than the previous year. (Graphic: http://tmsnrt.rs/2DKhoAJ)

Immigrant advocates say some of the most vulnerable immigrants - victims of domestic violence and unaccompanied minors - could potentially be deported even though they are eligible for a visa, because the courts will not set their cases aside.

In January, Sessions announced he will review a recent decision of the Board of Immigration Appeals and consider whether judges should have authority to close cases. He sought legal arguments from all sides as he considers the matter.

In a December speech, Sessions skewered the Obama administration for closing “nearly 200,000 pending immigration court cases without a final decision” over a five-year period. “We are completing, not closing, immigration cases,” he said.

About 542,000 cases were pending three weeks before Trump took office in January 2017, according to a Department of Justice estimate. Since then, the backlog has grown by another estimated 145,000 cases, a 27 percent increase.

In comparison, the Obama administration added an average of 41,000 cases to the backlog each year, according to data from the Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse (TRAC), a New York-based research organization.

OPPOSING VIEWS

Trump was elected on a platform of tightening border security and speeding the removal of people living in the country illegally. Early in his presidency, he announced that all categories of immigrants in the country illegally would be considered targets for deportation.

Justice Department spokesman Devin O’Malley declined to comment on Reuters’ findings and on when Sessions might conclude his review of whether judges can close cases.

Groups advocating stricter immigration enforcement have long opposed the policy of administrative closure.

“We see this as one more example of attempts by the Obama administration to work around the rules of law,” said Michael Hethmon, senior counsel with the conservative Immigration Reform Law Institute in Washington.

In a legal filing in the Sessions' review, the American Bar Association cautioned that “withdrawal of administrative closure ... would have profound and long-lasting consequences on the operation of the immigration adjudication system and the lives of those who must proceed through it.”

Supporters of the policy also say it allows judges to focus on cases involving criminals and ones in which an immigrant has little possibility of gaining legal status. They note that many of the closed cases involved immigrants who had applications pending for legal status, through asylum claims, marriages to citizens or other means. 

RUNNING FROM THE GANGS

After gangs shot her father, paralyzing him and placing him permanently in a wheelchair, Jennifer Mendoza fled Honduras by herself in 2016. She was 10 years old.

She was detained after crossing the border, placed in deportation proceedings and held for four months at a facility for unaccompanied minors in Texas until she could be reunited with her mother, Ruth. The two applied for a U visa, which is granted to undocumented immigrants who are victims of violent crime and who help law enforcement try to catch the perpetrators.

In February this year, Mendoza moved to close her deportation case while she waited for a decision on her visa. The immigration court judge agreed, but the government lawyer objected and appealed. The case is now pending at the Board of Immigration Appeals.

Mendoza’s lawyer, Vicky Dobrin, said the case shows how aggressively the government is fighting closures. Prosecutors used to routinely support closing cases like Mendoza's, said Dobrin.

“Within a few months they were starting to oppose everything,” she said.

During the last four years of the Obama administration,  prosecutors appealed less than one percent of all case closures. Since Trump took office in January 2017, ICE prosecutors have appealed decisions to close cases 10 times more often, Reuters found.

Ashley Tabaddor, president of the immigration judges’ union, said the pushback from prosecutors has meant more work for judges.

“The case is going to take much longer and is going to take more resources,” she said.

(Reporting by Reade Levinson; Editing by Sue Horton and Ross Colvin)

SANTA ANA, Calif. —  California and its Democratic-controlled Legislature have built a reputation for leading resistance against the Trump administration's immigration crackdown.

But at the local level, there's a backlash brewing.

On Tuesday, the Orange County Board of Supervisors voted to condemn the state's sanctuary law and join a U.S. Justice Department lawsuit that contends it's unconstitutional.

The law, Senate Bill 54, limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities. It's a capstone of the effort by Gov. Jerry Brown, legislators and mayors of the largest cities in the state to resist stepped-up efforts to deport people in the country illegally and to stop President Donald Trump from building a wall along the U.S. border with Mexico.

The Justice Department welcomed Orange County's decision and Trump blasted the state's law on Twitter.

"My Administration stands in solidarity with the brave citizens in Orange County defending their rights against California's illegal and unconstitutional Sanctuary policies," he posted Wednesday.

Orange County, home to 3.2 million people, including hundreds of thousands of immigrants, has seen its decades-long reputation as a conservative GOP base erode in recent years. Hillary Clinton won more votes than Trump in the county in the 2016 election.

But on Tuesday its all-Republican Board of Supervisors voted 4-0 to join the federal lawsuit filed earlier this month against SB 54 and two other pro-immigrant state laws.

Supervisor Michelle Steel, an immigrant from South Korea, told the crowd that fixing the country's immigration system will take time.

"Along the way, law enforcement should absolutely cooperate fully within the constraints of federal law," she said.

About a dozen people holding American flags and signs reading "Support Our Constitution" cheered the board's actions.

"We cannot have all the states with different immigration laws. It just doesn't make sense," Doris Matyasovich told the board. "Our constitutional republic depends on following the rule of law."

Immigrant advocates, however, felt the supervisors had taken a step back in the county where, according to the U.S. Census Bureau, nearly a third of the residents are immigrants.

"History tells us that we will win. So I will be able to look in my children's and grandchildren's eyes and tell them I was on the right side of history," Bethany Anderson of Fullerton told supervisors. "Will you be able to do that?"

State Sen. Kevin de Leon, a Los Angeles Democrat who wrote the state's law, called the decision a "pretty sad use of taxpayer resources."

"This kind of obsessive immigrant bashing is embarrassing to the county and its residents, and seems designed to court the approval of a racist President and his cronies," he said in a statement.

The move highlights longstanding divisions over immigration in California. For years, some local governments have sought to help federal immigration agents pick up inmates from their jails to prevent them from being released back into their communities, while others have tried to keep their distance to encourage immigrant residents to trust police enough to come forward to report crimes.

In Orange County, leaders of the small city of Los Alamitos recently voted for an ordinance to exempt itself from the state's law while leaders in the county seat of Santa Ana — a self-declared immigrant sanctuary — will consider filing an amicus brief to support California in federal court.

The county also moved this week to improve communication with federal immigration agents by publishing the release dates of inmates online. The Sheriff's Department used to screen inmates in the county's jails to help Immigration and Customs Enforcement agents identify those subject to deportation but had to stop when the state law passed.

WASHINGTON —  Leaders of Orange County, California on Tuesday voted to join a federal lawsuit against the state's sanctuary law as part of a growing backlash in some conservative parts of California to state laws that protect illegal immigrants from deportation.

The board of supervisors of the Republican-controlled county voted unanimously to condemn a California law that limits police cooperation with federal immigration authorities, according to county records.

The U.S. Justice Department sued California this month over its immigration laws, a move California's Democratic Governor Jerry Brown said was akin to declaring war on the most populous U.S. state.

The issue of illegal immigrants has become increasingly heated in the United States since Donald Trump became president in 2017 and signaled that he planned to target a wider swath of people for deportation.

U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions has made combating illegal immigration a top priority and is trying to crack down on primarily Democrat-governed cities and states that he claims are "sanctuaries" for illegal immigrants.

Earlier on Tuesday, the U.S. Justice Department and West Palm Beach, Florida agreed to settle a lawsuit over whether the city was promoting "sanctuary city" policies to protect illegal immigrants from deportation.

Under the deal, the city agreed to tell all its employees via a memo that they were permitted to share information such as citizenship status with the Department of Homeland Security during the course of their job.

The Democratic-leaning city sued the U.S. government in February, after the Justice Department sent it a letter demanding it hand over documents to prove it was complying with a federal law that requires municipalities to share information with immigration officials about inmates housed in local jails.

The Justice Department has tried to block cities with sanctuary policies from receiving federal grant funding, leading to legal battles across the country.

West Palm Beach is one of 23 cities and states - including New York, Los Angeles and Chicago - that received letters from the Justice Department in January demanding documentary proof of compliance with the law.

(Reporting by Sarah N. Lynch and Andrew Hay; Editing by Leslie Adler and Sam Holmes)

AURORA, Colo. —  A Cuban immigrant's long quest for freedom appears over.

Rene Lima-Marin, who was targeted for deportation after being pardoned by Colorado's governor for an armed robbery for which he spent two different stints in prison, is no longer behind bars.

A smiling Lima-Marin walked out of an immigration detention center in suburban Denver on Monday after winning his deportation case. His lawyer, wife, father and a niece and nephew were there to greet him.

"It's hard to put into words really, but it's wonderful," he said of his release.

A judge in October ordered that deportation proceedings against Lima-Marin end and that he be released, but the U.S. Department of Homeland Security appealed that decision.

A lawyer at the firm representing him, Leah Rosenberg, was notified Monday that the U.S. Board of Immigration Appeals had denied the appeal. U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement said later Monday the agency was disappointed with the decision but would not pursue Lima-Marin "unless other future criminal convictions render him removable."

Lima-Marin was convicted of armed robbery in 2000 and sentenced to 98 years in prison but mistakenly paroled in 2008 in prison. After his release, he married, started a family and a got a job but was returned to prison after authorities discovered their mistake six years later.

In May 2017, a judge ordered he be released from prison, saying it was draconian to keep him behind bars. Immigration authorities detained him instead, citing a deportation order tied to his conviction.

Days later, Gov. John Hickenlooper, a Democrat, pardoned Lima-Marin in hopes of stalling his deportation. An immigration judge in Denver overturned the deportation order in July, but he remained in immigration detention while lawyers argued over his case.

Jason Kasperek, an assistant manager at a video store robbed by Lima-Marin and accomplice Michael Clifton in 1998, opposed the pardon, saying Lima-Marin had used the system in a "scandalous" way.

After his release Monday, Lima-Marin said he was "extremely remorseful" for the robbery.

"I'm not the same person I was before," he said. "I wish I never would have done those things, and I'm sorry that they had to experience that. It's a terrible thing. I wish I wasn't as immature as I was back then."

Clifton remains in prison. He told The Denver Post last year that he wishes Lima-Marin well but hopes his childhood friend's case would lead officials to address his long sentence too.

Lima-Marin came to the U.S. as a child in the 1980 Mariel boat lift from Cuba. He had legal residency until it was revoked following his criminal conviction. Immigration authorities held him for 180 days after his 2008 parole, but Cuba at the time wasn't accepting deportees who had arrived during the Mariel boatlift.

In January, then-President Barack Obama ended a "wet foot-dry foot" policy that protected Cuban immigrants who arrived on U.S. soil, opening a possible door for additional Cubans from the Mariel boat lift to be deported.

NEW YORK —  A Guatemalan immigrant who entered a New York City church to seek refuge from immigration authorities said Thursday she will fight to prevent being separated from her children.

As she held her 15-month-old baby, Aura Hernandez spoke to reporters inside Fourth Universalist Society, a historic Upper West Side church, where she has been hiding from federal agents. Hernandez, a mother of two who used to clean homes, has lived illegally in the U.S. since 2005.

"I am not going to keep quiet anymore. I ask all of you to not keep quiet, to defend your rights, the rights of our children," she said in Spanish with tears in her eyes as her 10-year-old son, Daniel, stood by her side. Both of her children were born in the U.S.

Hernandez, 37, vows to stay inside the church until her immigration status changes.

She entered more than two weeks ago after spending two weeks inside another church, where she first sought refuge.

Hernandez is the second immigrant who has publicly sought refuge from immigration authorities in a New York City church. Guatemalan immigrant Amanda Morales entered a church in the Washington Heights neighborhood in August with her three young children.

Immigration and Customs Enforcement's official policy considers schools or churches "sensitive locations" in which enforcement action is generally avoided although may occur "in limited circumstances," like under special orders from a supervisor.

ICE spokeswoman Rachael Yong Yow said in a statement that Hernandez was issued a final order of removal in 2006.

"An immigration judge denied a motion to reopen the case and the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) dismissed Hernandez's appeal and affirmed the immigration judge's decision," she said.

Hernandez was instructed to report to ICE on March 1 of this year with a ticket to leave the U.S.

"Hernandez did not report as required and is now considered an ICE fugitive," Yong Yow said.

Reverend Schuyler Vogel, senior minister at Fourth Universalist Society, said Hernandez could stay at his church for as long as she needed to.

"Every community matters, no matter where they are from", he told the crowd. "We need to make sure that American values are defended".

Since 2014, at least 70 publicly known cases have emerged of people seeking sanctuary in churches for immigration-related reasons, according to Church World Service, a New York organization that supports the sanctuary efforts. Of those, 51 have come up since President Donald Trump took office in January 2017 and pledged a harder line on immigration.

Hernandez's son, Daniel, lives with his father, also an immigrant living illegally in the U.S., in Westchester, New York. He spends his weekends at the church with his mother. On Thursday, he walked with several leaders of local churches and members of the New Sanctuary Coalition, a group that helps Hernandez, in a silent protest around the nearby Trump International Hotel & Tower. He carried a sign that read "please don't deport my mommy".

Jeanette Vizguerra, a Mexican immigrant, who took sanctuary in a Colorado church last year and was named by Time magazine as one of the 100 most influential people in the country, stood by Hernandez's side. Vizguerra spent 86 days in sanctuary until she received a temporary reprieve.

"We, immigrants, are suffering attacks under this administration", said Vizguerra. "If Mr. Trump thought he was going to divide us I have to tell him that he has accomplished the opposite"

Hernandez claims that after crossing the border in 2005 she was sexually abused by a border patrol officer but U.S. Customs and Border Patrol spokesperson responded that a full investigation by ICE's Office of Professional Responsibility, the U.S. Attorney's Office and local law enforcement was conducted and the allegations "were found to be unsubstantiated."

The New Sanctuary Coalition is seeking to reopen Hernandez's case.

SEATTLE —  A federal judge in Seattle opened the door Thursday for thousands of immigrants to apply for asylum, finding that the Department of Homeland Security has routinely failed to notify them of a deadline for filing their applications.

U.S. District Judge Ricardo S. Martinez issued the ruling in a class-action lawsuit brought by immigrant rights groups on behalf of those who fear persecution if returned to their home country.

In many cases, those asylum seekers are released from custody after officials have interviewed them and determined their fears to be credible. They're told that they'll need to appear in immigration court, but they typically aren't personally told that they only have a year to apply for asylum, the lawsuit argued.

Due to a backlog in immigration cases, the asylum seekers are often not given a hearing within a year, and thus, by the time they show up in court and learn about the deadline, it's already passed, Martinez found.

"This means many asylum seekers who were previously going to have a door slammed in their face are now able to say, 'No, a federal court has said that I am timely filing my application and you need to accept it,'" said Matt Adams, legal director of the Northwest Immigrant Rights Project and an attorney for the plaintiffs.

Jonathan Withington, a spokesman for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, part of Homeland Security, said the agency does not comment on pending litigation.

The judge ordered the department to begin providing notice about the one-year deadline within 90 days any time an immigrant seeking asylum is released from custody pending deportation proceedings. He also said the department must give those who missed the deadline another year to file their applications.

Further, Martinez told the department it must fix another catch-22 in its system: that while asylum-seekers must file their asylum applications within a year, the government refuses to accept the applications unless the applicant has been given a formal notice to appear in immigration court.

Often those notices aren't issued within a year, so even if asylum seekers know about the one-year deadline, there's virtually no way for them to meet it, Martinez said.

He ordered the government to come up with a uniform system for accepting asylum applications.

"Defendants have left class members without an adequate mechanism to timely file their asylum applications, thereby denying them the opportunity to exercise their statutory right to apply for asylum," Martinez wrote.

Government lawyers argued that they do publish materials that inform asylum seekers of the deadline — including the "Information Guide for Prospective Asylum Applicants," available in 11 languages, and in "Know Your Rights" videos that many detention centers play for detainees.

Further, federal law does not require that officials directly notify asylum seekers of the deadline upon their release from custody, the government argued.

But Martinez said that given the trauma and stress endured by many asylum seekers, combined with a typical lack of legal counsel and knowledge about U.S. immigration law, the general notifications about the deadline aren't good enough.

Martinez also found that personal notification to asylum seekers was needed to carry out the intent of Congress.

He noted comments from Republican Utah Sen. Orrin Hatch, also cited by the plaintiffs, about the one-year deadline in 1996: "I am committed to ensuring that those with legitimate claims of asylum are not returned to persecution, particularly for technical deficiencies. If the time limit is not implemented fairly, or cannot be implemented fairly, I will be prepared to revisit this issue in a later Congress."

Among the asylum-seekers who sued was Lidia Margarita Lopez Orellana, who arrived in Eagle Pass, Texas, from Guatemala in 2014 with her two youngest children in tow. She said that despite checking in with immigration authorities regularly as required, she didn't learn about the deadline until December 2015, when she met with a lawyer.

___

A Cuban immigrant who was pardoned by Colorado's governor after he was ordered released from prison only to be arrested by immigration authorities is free again. This is a timeline of Rene-Lima Marin's case:

1980 —Lima-Marin leaves Cuba as a toddler with his parents in what would become known as the Mariel boat lift after Fidel Castro announced the country would stop trying to prevent unauthorized departures. More than 125,000 islanders took advantage of the opportunity, most of them law-abiding citizens but some of them criminals and mental patients.

1995 — President Bill Clinton enacts the "wet foot, dry foot" policy allowing Cubans who reach the United States to remain in the country. Cubans were also protected from deportation to Cuba because of the lack of diplomatic ties between the two countries.

2000 — Lima-Marin and another man are convicted on multiple robbery, kidnapping and burglary charges in connection with two violent robberies of suburban Denver video stores. He was sentenced to back-to-back, or consecutive, sentences on eight convictions, for a total of 98 years. However, a court clerk recorded that the sentences should be served at the same time. An immigration judge also orders that Lima-Marin be deported.

2001 — The U.S. Supreme Court rules that the government can't indefinitely hold people who can't be deported to another country. As a result, they can remain in the United States but must check in with immigration officials regularly.

2008 — Lima-Marin is released from prison after serving just eight years because of the clerk's error. He went on to complete five years of parole, got married to a former girlfriend, helped raise her son and they had another son together.

2014 — Colorado authorities find Lima-Marin was mistakenly released and he is returned to prison to finish serving the rest of his 98-year sentence.

January 2017 — President Barack Obama ends the "wet foot, dry foot" policy as part of normalization of relations with Cuba. Cuba agrees to consider taking back Cubans slated for deportation from the U.S. on a case-by-case basis.

May 2017 — A judge orders Lima-Marin to be released from prison, saying it would be "draconian" to keep him in prison and that he had paid his debt to society. He is released from prison but arrested by U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper pardons Lima-Marin for his armed robbery conviction in an effort to stave off his deportation.October 2017 — An immigration judge orders an end to deportation proceedings against Lima-Marin and says he should be released from federal custody but the U.S. Department of Homeland Security appeals the ruling

March 2018 — Lima-Marin is released from an immigration detention center in suburban Denver after the appeal is denied. Another appeal by Homeland Security is possible.

PHOENIX —  Federal agents acting on a tip went to a Phoenix house where they found and detained 34 immigrants believed to have entered the United States, U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials said Wednesday.

The 34 immigrants taken into custody included 27 Guatemalans, five Mexicans and 2 Hondurans, according to a statement from the agency.

News video showed a group of people in handcuffs sitting in a driveway outside the home.

"We responded to a tip that basically informed us there was a local residence that contained a large group of suspected undocumented immigrants," said Lauren Mack, an agency spokeswoman. "They dismantled a drop house."

Human traffickers typically use drop houses to temporarily house immigrants who have been smuggled into the country while "waiting for transportation to another or a pickup or payment made to a smuggler," Mack said.

The 34 migrants were detained for administrative immigration violations and processed for removal from the United States, Mack said.

There was no information immediately available on how long the immigrants had been in the home, Mack said.

SAN FRANCISCO —  U.S. President Donald Trump's administration said on Thursday it would no longer presume that many pregnant women detained by immigration authorities should be released from custody, reversing an Obama-era directive.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers will make a case by case determination under the new policy. Women in their third trimester will still be released as before, said Philip Miller, an ICE deputy executive associate director.

"Just like there are men who commit heinous acts violent acts, so too have we had women in custody that commit heinous acts," Miller told reporters on Thursday.

The Republican president has vowed to crack down on illegal immigration, including policies on which deportees can remain free during pending cases. Democrats and advocacy groups have criticized the administration for separating migrant from their children when detained.

During President Barack Obama's administration, ICE in 2016 announced that pregnant women not subject to mandatory detention should be presumptively released.

Miller said on Thursday the new directive was meant to align with a Trump executive order mandating tougher ICE enforcement. Thirty-five pregnant women are in ICE custody, all subject to mandatory detention, he said.

Since the policy was implemented in December, Miller said, 506 pregnant women have been detained by ICE. He could not say what happened to each of them, but noted that some likely had been deported while others might have been released in the United States.

Michelle Brané, director of the Migrant Rights and Justice Program with the Women's Refugee Commission, criticized the move and said many women entering the United States are pregnant due to rape.

"Detention is especially traumatic for pregnant women and even more so for victims of rape and gender-based violence," she said in a statement.

Miller said pregnant women with asylum claims determined to be based on a "credible fear" of persecution in their home country would still likely be released.

The policy change was first reported by The Hill on Thursday, citing internal ICE documents.

(Reporting by Dan Levine; Editing by Richard Chang)

SAN FRANCISCO —  Texas and more than a dozen other states led by Republican governors got behind the Trump administration on Monday in its lawsuit over California's so-called sanctuary laws that protect people in the U.S. illegally.

California's laws are designed to interfere with or block federal immigration enforcement but the state does not have that authority, the other states said in a court filing in the U.S. Department of Justice's lawsuit against California. The filing in federal court in Sacramento supports the Justice Department's attempt to block the laws.

An email to the California Attorney General's office was not immediately returned.

The Justice Department sued California in March over three state laws, including one that requires the state to review detention facilities where immigrants are held and another that limits the ability of state and local law enforcement officials to turn people over to immigration authorities.

Federal officials have said California officials have prevented them from removing dangerous people who are in the U.S. illegally. California officials have responded that their sanctuary policies increase public safety by promoting trust between immigrant communities and law enforcement.

The filing by Texas and the other states argues that California's laws should be blocked on the same grounds that the U.S. Supreme Court struck down a 2010 Arizona immigration law.

The Arizona law required police, while enforcing other laws, to question the immigration status of people suspected of being in the country illegally, made it a crime to harbor immigrants here illegally, and banned them from seeking work in public places.

The U.S. Supreme Court struck down key provisions of the law in 2012. Justice Anthony Kennedy said Arizona may have "understandable frustrations" with immigrants who are in the country illegally, but added that it can't pursue policies that "undermine federal law."

If Arizona's laws are overridden by federal law, then so are California's, the court filing for Texas and the other states said. They cited a legal document signed by California in the fight over Arizona's law that said the removal of people in the country illegally was up to the federal government.

"With a new presidential administration, however, California has changed its tune," the states said.

California Attorney General Xavier Becerra and legal experts have argued that California's laws are different from Arizona's.

The states also said California's laws could harm them by making it easier for immigrants who have committed crimes to go to other states.

The states joining Texas are:  Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Indiana, Kansas, Louisiana, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina and West Virginia. Louisiana's governor, John Bel Edwards, is a Democrat.

The Republican governors of Mississippi and Maine also joined the filing, though their states, which have Democrats as attorneys general, did not."

WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump said on Friday he was considering vetoing Congress' $1.3 trillion spending bill over immigration issues, including full funding for his proposed border wall and young 'Dreamer' immigrants.

"I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded," Trump wrote on Twitter.

(Reporting by Susan Heavey and Justin Mitchell; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe)

WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump on Wednesday extolled a major California county for joining his administration's legal challenge to the state's new limits on how much local police and sheriff's departments support his rigorous deportation policy.

"My Administration stands in solidarity with the brave citizens in Orange County defending their rights against California's illegal and unconstitutional Sanctuary policies," Trump wrote in a tweet.

The Justice Department had earlier welcomed the decision by California's third largest county to join its lawsuit  challenging the "sanctuary state" law, officially known as SB 54, that Democratic-governed California enacted late last year.  The Orange County board of supervisors voted unanimously on Tuesday evening to link arms with the administration.

“Orange County’s residents have experienced firsthand the negative effects of SB 54, which mandates releasing criminal aliens back into their communities instead of into the custody of federal immigration authorities," said Justice Department spokesman Devin O'Malley.

The law bars local law enforcement from supporting Republican Trump's crackdown on illegal immigration with money, facilities and access to people held in custody. As a presidential candidate in 2016, Trump promised to take a tough stance on immigration and refugees. Since taking office he has zealously pursued his promises to construct a wall along the country's border with Mexico and ramp up deportations.

The Justice Department, led by Republican Attorney General Jeff Sessions, has sued cities that officially do not cooperate with federal authorities in order to provide "sanctuary" to immigrants residing within their borders illegally.

In his tweets on Wednesday, Trump said "all citizens have the right to be protected by Federal law and strong borders."

Orange County has long been considered the conservative counterpoint to its liberal neighbor to the north, Los Angeles. In recent years it has shown signs of an identity shift and the lawsuit could underline growing social and political rifts in its seaside cities.

The county supported Trump's opponent, Hillary Clinton, in the 2016 presidential election, the first time it voted for a Democrat since the Great Depression. Meanwhile, nearly one-third of its residents were born in another country, and people of Hispanic and Asian origins make up more than half the county's population, according to the U.S. Census.

(Reporting by Lisa Lambert; Editing by Jeffrey Benkoe and Bill Trott)

WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration is considering a proposal that would penalize immigrants for accepting almost any form of public benefit, including a popular tax credit.

Under a draft proposal first reported by The Washington Post, the Department of Homeland Security would expand the definition of "public benefit" to include the federal earned income tax credit as well as health insurance and housing subsidies.

The earned income tax credit benefits low- and moderate-income workers, particularly those with children.

Department spokesman Tyler Houlton says the proposed rule was sent to the Office of Management and Budget to be listed in the Federal Register Thursday.

He stressed the proposal is "pre-decisional," but that the administration "is committed to enforcing existing immigration law," as well as "respecting taxpayer dollars."

PROVIDENCE, R.I. —  A judge has ordered a man accused of war crimes and human rights violations while serving as a paramilitary commander during Guatemala's civil war to return to his native country.

The Providence Journal reports that a judge in Boston on Thursday rejected Juan Alicio Samayoa Cabrera's request to remain in the United States. The 67-year-old has lived in Providence, Rhode Island, for 25 years.

He's accused by the Guatemalan government of being involved in murders and other crimes against indigenous Mayans in the 1980s.

Samayoa's lawyer argues he'll be tortured if he returns to Guatemala. Several supporters had sent letters to the judge urging him to allow Samayoa to stay in the U.S.

He has 30 days to decide whether he'll appeal to the Board of Immigration Appeals.

___

Information from: The Providence Journal, http://www.providencejournal.com

CHICAGO —  A man who had lawful resident status before being wrongfully convicted in Chicago for a 1995 killing was taken into custody Wednesday by immigration authorities.

Cook County prosecutors dropped the case against Ricardo Rodriguez this week amid allegations that a discredited Chicago detective manipulated witnesses. They said their office couldn't meet its burden of proof. But instead of Rodriguez being a free man, he was taken into custody by Immigration and Customs Enforcement.

The Chicago Tribune reports Rodriguez's conviction stemmed from a drive-by shooting on the city's Northwest Side that left a homeless man dead. The victim, Rodney Kemppainen, did neighborhood jobs for people in exchange for sleeping in garages.

"Nobody seems to have motive to kill him, including our client," said Tara Thompson, an attorney representing Rodriguez.

Rodriguez's lawful resident status was revoked when he was convicted, his attorneys said. Now he faces the possibility of being deported despite being freed. Court records show Rodriguez has two convictions for marijuana possession.

Maria Rodriguez-Lopez said her brother was brought to the United States from Mexico as a child and all his family is here.

"It would be a very big injustice for them to do that to not only my mother, but my family, who have tried so hard to prove his innocence all these years," Rodriguez-Lopez said.

The Exoneration Project says two witnesses who testified at trial had been unable to describe the murder suspect until Detective Reynaldo Guevara showed them a picture of Rodriguez. One of the witnesses has since claimed he was manipulated by Guevara.

Rodriguez did not confess to the killing, and there is no physical evidence linking him to it, the attorneys said.

Rodriguez's case is the 10th related to Guevara that has been tossed out since allegations came up that the now-retired detective beat suspects and improperly coerced witnesses.

___

Information from: Chicago Tribune, http://www.chicagotribune.com

NAIROBI, Kenya —  The Latest on the deported Kenyan opposition politician (all times local):

4:10 p.m.

A Kenyan judge has fined the country's interior minister, police chief and permanent secretary for immigration $2,000 each for contempt of court over the deportation of an opposition politician, Miguna Miguna.

Justice George Odunga says he cannot jail the officials because even "if they can't obey the orders of this court with such impunity, I do not see how any of their juniors will execute the warrants against them."

The judge had ordered the officials to appear in court on Thursday after Miguna was detained in an airport toilet while trying to enter Kenya. The politician has been targeted during lingering tensions over last year's disputed presidential election.

Miguna says he was drugged and forcibly deported to Dubai overnight by Kenyan authorities.

___

11:30 a.m.

Lawyers say that early Thursday Kenyan authorities deported an opposition politician whose attempt to enter the country led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day.

Lawyer Cliff Ombeta said that Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was sent to Dubai even after a court ordered authorities to release him. Another lawyer, James Orengo, said police at the airport roughed up lawyers and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order.

Kenyan authorities did not immediately respond, though Kenya's immigration department re-tweeted a post urging the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated.

The deportation ended the airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2."

SANTA ANA, Calif. —  The Latest on a proposal for Orange County to join a lawsuit over California's so-called sanctuary law (all times local):

2:35 p.m.

Leaders in Orange County, California, have voted to join a U.S. government lawsuit against the state over its so-called sanctuary law for immigrants living in the U.S. illegally.

By a 3-0 vote, the all-Republican Board of Supervisors decided in closed session Tuesday to take the action.

The vote comes a week after the small Orange County city of Los Alamitos voted to opt out of the state law that limits local police collaboration with federal immigration agents.

California passed the sanctuary law last year to try to protect immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration.

___

10:30 a.m.

Several dozen immigrant advocates have held a rally to urge elected officials in Orange County, California, to refrain from joining a federal lawsuit over the state's so-called sanctuary law.

Salvador G. Sarmiento, legislative director for the National Day Laborer Organizing Network, said Tuesday that approving the proposal would return the Southern California county to a "hateful time."

Advocates played music and held signs with slogans supporting sanctuary.

The county Board of Supervisors is set to discuss proposals to pass a resolution supporting efforts by the small city of Los Alamito to opt out of California's law limiting police collaboration with immigration agents and a U.S. government lawsuit against the state.

California passed the law last year to try to protect immigrants from the Trump administration's stepped up deportations.

___

7:15 a.m.

Authorities in Orange County, California, have started publishing the release dates for inmates from the county's jails to try to help federal agents locate immigrants subject to deportation.

The Orange County Sheriff's Department said Monday the information is available on its website.

The move comes after California passed a law limiting local police collaboration with deportation agents. That measure also put an end to a long-standing program in Orange County where deputies screened inmates to help federal authorities identify immigrants subject to deportation.

The Southern California county's board of supervisors is considering joining a lawsuit against the state's so-called sanctuary law. California's law is aimed at protecting immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration.

The Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department also publishes the release dates of inmates online.

___

10:56 p.m.

Leaders in Orange County, California, are considering whether to fight the state's so-called sanctuary law for immigrants living in the U.S. illegally.

The backlash over the law aimed at protecting immigrants from stepped-up deportations under the Trump administration comes a week after the small city of Los Alamitos in Orange County voted to opt out of it.

The all-Republican supervisors of the Southern California county of 3.2 million people are expected Tuesday to discuss passing a resolution supporting Los Alamitos and whether to join the U.S. government's lawsuit against the state.

California passed its law last year to limit local police collaboration with federal immigration authorities.

Supporters say the measure encourages immigrants to report crime to police without fearing deportation. Critics say local authorities should provide more assistance to federal agents.

SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  Jurors recommend the death penalty Tuesday for a man who repeatedly entered the United States illegally before killing two Northern California deputies in a case that fueled the national immigration debate.

Luis Bracamontes, who is a Mexican citizen, was found guilty of murder in the 2014 shootings of Sacramento County sheriff's Deputy Danny Oliver and Placer County sheriff's Detective Michael Davis Jr. He also was convicted of attempted murder, carjacking, weapons violations and other crimes.

Sacramento Superior Court Judge Steve White will deliver a formal sentence April 25, according to The Sacramento Bee .

Bracamontes smiled and silently clapped his hands as the jury's sentencing recommendation was read, the Bee reported.

"He's a coward," said Phyllis Sylvia, Oliver's sister.

During the trial, he was removed from the courtroom repeatedly for profane outbursts. When his guilty verdict was read, Bracamontes said he would "kill more cops soon."

Republican President Donald Trump featured Bracamontes in a January ad accusing Democrats of being "complicit" in the slayings of law enforcement officers by people in the U.S. illegally.

LAS VEGAS —  Five members of the MS-13 street gang have been arrested in the killings of 10 victims in the Las Vegas area over the past year, authorities said Monday.

Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo did not identify any of the suspects but released a list of victims found stabbed and shot to death since March 2017. He also provided a map of places where the 10 bodies were found, including federal land in remote areas near Lake Mead and mountains around the city.

The announcement comes amid declarations by President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions that they are committed to cracking down on the violent street gang.

The gang known as La Mara Salvatrucha emerged in the 1980s as a neighborhood street gang in Los Angeles but is believed by federal prosecutors to have thousands of members across the U.S., primarily immigrants from El Salvador and Honduras. They have been linked to waves of violence in the suburbs of New York City, Washington, D.C., and other communities.

Trump blames lax U.S. immigration laws for allowing deported members of MS-13 to return to the U.S. to prey upon law-abiding people. He also faults a federal system that has allowed tens of thousands of unaccompanied children from Central America who crossed the U.S. border illegally to remain in the country.

Lombardo, who faces re-election this year, insisted that having the four adults in federal immigration detention and a 17-year-old held as a juvenile crippled a Las Vegas cell of MS-13 that he numbered at less than 50 members.

He said the case had ties to Los Angeles and Fresno, California, but did not elaborate.

"I'm very confident that the active players of the gang associated with MS-13 are in custody," Lombardo said.

A spokeswoman for interim U.S. Attorney Dayle Elieson didn't immediately comment about the case.

Lt. John Leon, head of the Las Vegas police gang unit, said the MS-13 link to the Las Vegas-area slayings became clear in January after investigators found that two men who knew each other and had current or former ties to the gang were found similarly shot, stabbed and left dead in remote areas.

Another break came after police raids netted 18 weapons, including one gun used both in a March 2017 killing and in the Dec. 31 death of a man gunned down in the driveway of a home.

Three people who were arrested with the others were cleared and not charged, Lombardo said, after they provided what the sheriff called cooperation and information that was vital to the investigation.

NAIROBI, Kenya —  A Kenyan opposition politician alleged he was drugged and deported to Dubai early Thursday after his attempt to enter Kenya led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day.

Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was deported even after a court ordered authorities to release him, lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Police at the airport roughed up lawyers and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order, said another lawyer, James Orengo.

Miguna said in a Facebook post that authorities broke into the airport toilet where he had been held and forcibly injected him with a substance and he passed out. He said he regained consciousness when the Emirates flight arrived in Dubai.

"I will and must return to Kenya as a Kenyan citizen by birth as various courts have ordered," he wrote.

There was no immediate response from Kenyan authorities, though Kenya's immigration department retweeted a post calling on the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated or drugged.

The deportation ended the Nairobi airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2," saying he had been detained in the "filthy" facilities at the country's main airport with food or access to lawyers.

Hours before he was deported, a High Court judge declared Kenya's interior minister, national police chief and permanent secretary for immigration in contempt of court for disregarding an order to immediately release Miguna, said another lawyer, Nelson Havi.

Justice George Odunga ordered the officials to show up in court Thursday morning or be jailed. When they failed to appear, the judge fined $2,000 each for contempt of court. He did not order them jailed because even "if they can't obey the orders of this court with such impunity" he doubted that junior officials would act on warrants to arrest them.

Miguna had been deported to Canada last month in a crackdown on politicians who attended the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. A court later ordered that Miguna's Kenyan passport be restored and that he be allowed to return.

However, when Miguna arrived on Monday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, plainclothes officers tried to hustle him onto an outbound plane, witnesses said. That failed when he protested.

Miguna later posted statements on social media saying he had been "detained inside a tiny and filthy toilet" in one of the terminals. "I have not eaten. I have not taken a shower. I have not been given access to my lawyers, family members and physicians."

Miguna could not appear in court as ordered because his entry into the country was still being processed, a lawyer representing Kenya's attorney general, Japheth Mutinda, told the court on Wednesday.

The airport confrontation came two weeks after a surprise meeting between opposition leader Odinga and Kenya's president as they announced a new initiative to heal this East African nation after months of sometimes deadly election turmoil.

Odinga had argued that Kenyatta lacked legitimacy because his initial Aug. 8 re-election victory was nullified by the Supreme Court over "irregularities and illegalities." The repeat election had a low turnout as Odinga boycotted it, citing a lack of electoral reforms.

Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" at the mock inauguration. The government responded by arresting opposition politicians.

___

NAIROBI, Kenya —  Acting in the middle of the night, Kenyan authorities handcuffed and deported an opposition politician whose attempt to enter the country led to him being detained in an airport toilet for more than a day, lawyers said early Thursday.

Miguna Miguna, targeted in a Kenyan government crackdown amid lingering election tensions, was sent to Dubai even after a court ordered authorities to release him, lawyer Cliff Ombeta said. Another lawyer, James Orengo, said police at the airport roughed them up and forced them to leave when they tried to serve the court order.

There was no immediate response from Kenyan authorities, though Kenya's immigration department retweeted a post calling on the public to ignore a rumor that Miguna had been sedated or drugged.

The deportation ended the airport drama in which Miguna posted from what he called "Toilet at Terminal 2," saying he had been detained in the "filthy" facilities at the country's main airport in Nairobi.

Hours before he was deported, a High Court judge declared Kenya's interior minister, national police chief and permanent secretary for immigration in contempt of court for disregarding an order to immediately release Miguna, said another lawyer, Nelson Havi. Justice George Odunga ordered the officials to show up in court Thursday morning or be jailed.

Miguna had been deported to Canada last month in the crackdown on politicians who attended the mock inauguration of opposition leader Raila Odinga to protest President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election. A court later ordered that Miguna's Kenyan passport be restored and that he be allowed to return.

However, when Miguna arrived on Monday at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, plainclothes officers tried to hustle him onto an outbound plane, witnesses said. That failed when he protested.

Miguna later posted statements on social media saying he had been "detained inside a tiny and filthy toilet" in one of the terminals. "I have not eaten. I have not taken a shower. I have not been given access to my lawyers, family members and physicians."

A lawyer representing Kenya's attorney general, Japheth Mutinda, told the court on Wednesday that Miguna could not appear there as ordered because his entry into the country was still being processed.

The airport confrontation came two weeks after a surprise meeting between opposition leader Odinga and Kenya's president as they announced a new initiative to heal the East African nation after months of sometimes deadly election turmoil.

Odinga had argued that Kenyatta lacked legitimacy because his initial Aug. 8 re-election victory was nullified by the Supreme Court over "irregularities and illegalities." The repeat election had a low turnout as Odinga boycotted it, citing a lack of electoral reforms.

Miguna was at Odinga's side when he took an oath as the "people's president" at the mock inauguration. The government responded by arresting opposition politicians.

___

BERLIN —  Hungarian authorities on Wednesday arrested a German suspected of selling arms via an anti-immigrant website called "Migrants' Fright", the Berlin public prosecutor said on Wednesday.

The 34-year-old man ran the website from Hungary to serve German clients from May to November 2016 before it was shut down, the prosecutor's office said.

An internet search showed the website offered "first class and discretely delivered" ammunition and guns such as pistols and Kalashnikovs to clients "without troublesome bureaucratic hurdles or annoying paperwork".

Hungarian authorities raided two sites in Budapest and the city of Barcs on Wednesday, seizing data and other evidence, the prosecutor's office said, adding that the man was suspected of 193 cases of illegal arms sales.

The investigation had been under way since 2016, when German magazine Focus reported that the suspect was operating "Anonymous.Kollektiv", a far-right anti-immigration website that had nearly 2 million followers on Facebook. The page has since been deleted.

German authorities have sought to crack down on attacks against immigrants which have increased since the influx of over a million mostly Muslim migrants beginning in 2015.

There were more than 2,000 attacks against migrants in 2017, ranging from physical assault to serious property damage, the German interior ministry said in February. It was not clear how many of the attacks involved weapons.

(Reporting By Riham Alkousaa; Editing by Andrea Shalal and Robin Pomeroy)

WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump signed Congress' newly passed $1.3 trillion spending bill on Friday, ending several hours of confusion spurred by a tweeted veto threat that raised the specter of a government shutdown.

Trump said he had signed the bill, despite his qualms on some issues, because a $60 billion increase in military spending had convinced him it was a worthwhile compromise.

"But I say to Congress I will never sign another bill like this again," he told reporters. "I'm not going to do it again."

White House and Capitol Hill aides had been left scrambling earlier in the day after Trump criticized the six-month spending bill, despite prior assurances from the administration that he would sign it ahead of a looming midnight deadline.

"I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded," Trump wrote on Twitter at 9 a.m. EDT.

Trump then huddled with his senior advisers to discuss a potential veto and was advised against it, with the advisers saying he would be blamed for a shutdown and that discussions continue on the issues he is concerned about, one aide said.

By early afternoon, he appeared before reporters in the Diplomatic Reception Room of the White House to announce he had signed the measure.

"There are a lot of things I'm unhappy about in this bill," he said, patting the more than 2,000 pages of the legislation stacked on a purple box beside him.

It was unclear how seriously Republican leaders took Trump's shutdown threat. Neither Speaker Paul Ryan nor Senate Leader Mitch McConnell commented publicly on it.

Lawmakers in the Republican-dominated Senate and House of Representatives had already left Washington for a scheduled two-week spring recess, and Trump himself was scheduled on Friday to fly to Florida for a weekend at his private resort.

IMMIGRATION CONCERNS

Trump has been frustrated that Congress has not turned over funding to make good on his campaign promise to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. The bill includes $1.6 billion for six month's of work on the project but he had sought $25 billion for it.

Trump also has been at odds with Democrats in Congress over the fate of Dreamer immigrants - those brought to the United States illegally when they were children.

Trump canceled the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program that gives work permits to the Dreamers and protects them from deportation. The decision is currently tied up in court cases.

He offered to extend the protections, tied to a sweeping set of changes to immigration laws, but subsequently rejected bipartisan offers from lawmakers.

As the six-month spending budget deal was coming together, there had been reports Trump had balked at the bill and had to be persuaded by Ryan to support it.

The conservative wing of Trump's party had panned the bill because of its spending increases and some deficit hawks cheered Trump's Friday morning threat to veto it.

(Reporting by Richard Cowan and Steve Holland; additional reporting by Roberta Rampton, Amanda Becker, Susan Heavey and Patricia Zengerle; Editing by Bill Trott)

CHICAGO —  An Army veteran from Chicago who served two tours in Afghanistan and had been in the U.S. since age 8 has been deported to Mexico because of a 2008 drug-trafficking conviction.

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement officials confirmed Monday that Miguel Perez Jr., 39, who had a green card, was deported Friday. The move came after he lost an appeal to remain in the U.S. and Illinois Gov. Bruce Rauner refused to pardon him.

Perez was flown from Gary, Indiana, to Brownsville, Texas, where officers escorted him across the border and turned him over to Mexican authorities, ICE officials said. He spoke to the Chicago Tribune in a Thursday evening call from a detention center, saying "I'm not leaving. They're taking me."

"Not for 30 seconds was I illegal in this country," he said. "I went to war for this country out of love for this country."

Perez's parents, Miguel Sr. and Esperanza Montes Perez, said in Spanish that they are heartbroken but will continue to fight for their son's return.

"My son fought in a war (in) which he defended people who are now throwing him out like garbage," Montes Perez said, according to the Tribune.

Perez handed a laptop case containing 4.4 pounds of cocaine to an undercover officer on Nov. 26, 2008, authorities said. He pleaded guilty to the drug charge and ICE took him into custody after he served half of a 15-year prison sentence.

U.S. Sen. Tammy Duckworth has been one of Perez's supporters. On Friday, she wrote a letter to Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen asking her to halt Perez's deportation and to personally review the case. Duckworth said she received no response.

"At the very least, Miguel should have been able to exhaust all of his legal options before being rushed out of the country under a shroud of secrecy," Duckworth said Saturday.

ICE has said that it is very deliberate in reviewing cases that involve U.S. military veterans and that any action to remove a veteran must have the authorization of senior leadership and an evaluation by chief counsel.

DEDHAM, Mass. —  A Polish national convicted of abusing a dog so severely that it had to be euthanized was sentenced Tuesday in Massachusetts, nearly five years after the dog known as "Puppy Doe" was found abandoned.

Radoslaw Czerkawski , 37, was sentenced to 8 to 10 years in prison after he was convicted Monday of animal cruelty. He was also sentenced to two years' probation and prohibited from owning or coming into contact with any animals. Czerkawski is also banned from volunteering at animal shelters.

Immigration officials say they will deport Czerkawski once he completes his sentences, and have lodged a detainer for him upon his release. The Norfolk County District Attorney Michael Morrissey said the probation would not delay any removal from the U.S.

He was found guilty Monday of torturing and abandoning Kiya the pit bull, but cleared of lying to police. Czerkawski is already in prison on two unrelated larceny convictions.

The case received widespread attention when the year-old pit bull mix was found on a playground in Quincy in August 2013 with skull, spine and rib fractures, a stab wound to the right eye and a split tongue.

The dog, named Kiya by her previous owners, was purchased by Czerkawski on Craigslist in the summer of 2013.

Czerkawski's attorney acknowledged his client owned the dog but said it ran away and someone else was responsible for the abuse.

Animal Rescue League President Mary Nee called the decision historic and said it will create precedent for stronger animal welfare laws.

"Puppy Doe's short and tragic life was the impetus for stronger laws and protecting all animals," she said.

BEIJING —  China believes the Visegrad group in the European Union - Slovakia, Hungary, Czech Republic and Poland - is the bloc's most dynamic force, China's top diplomat said, praising a grouping which has had strained ties with Western Europe.

The four countries have been at odds with Brussels over  issues including immigration and fundamental rights, with the Slovak prime minister complaining in January they should not be treated as "black sheep" in the EU.

China has courted central and eastern European states, including with annual summits, which has fed concern in Western European capitals that Beijing is seeking to divide the continent.

Reuters earlier this month reported that China was considering paring back the summits, although China says preparatory talks for this year's summit in Bulgaria are continuing.

Meeting vice foreign ministers from the four countries in Beijing on Thursday, Chinese State Councillor Wang Yi said China appreciated the Visegrad countries' efforts to achieve win-win cooperation and common development with China and supports their participation in the Belt and Road Initiative.

"Visegrad countries are representatives of European emerging market countries and the most dynamic force within the EU,"  Wang told them, according to a statement from China's foreign ministry on Friday.

China believes the Visegrad countries can inject new impetus into the integration process in Europe, Wang added.

China stands ready to work with central and eastern European countries to maintain and develop the "16+1 cooperation", he said, referring to China's cooperation mechanism with those countries.

The ministry cited the four visiting vice foreign ministers as telling Wang they were ready to enhance exchanges with China and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, referring to President Xi Jinping's grand plan to build a new Silk Road.

(Reporting by Ben Blanchard; editing by Richard Pullin)

SACRAMENTO, Calif. —  A Utah woman was sentenced to nearly 50 years in prison Friday for helping her husband as he killed two Northern California sheriff's deputies in 2014.

Sacramento Superior Court Judge Steve White sentenced Janelle Monroy after jurors last month rejected her argument that she feared Luis Bracamontes would have killed her if she didn't help him.

"Ms. Monroy, you did not start this reign of terror, but you joined in immediately after as an active participant," White said, according to The Sacramento Bee .

Bracamontes is a Mexican citizen who repeatedly entered the United States illegally. President Donald Trump has cited his case to illustrate problems with the nation's immigration policy.

Bracamontes has repeatedly said in court that he killed the deputies and wished he had killed more.

Monroy, 41, who is a U.S. citizen, willingly moved her husband's assault-style rifle from vehicle to stolen vehicle after he killed Sacramento County sheriff's Deputy Danny Oliver and before he killed Placer County sheriff's Detective Michael Davis Jr. hours later, prosecutors said.

She faced a life sentence after she was convicted of 10 charges including murder, attempted murder and carjacking, attempted carjacking and possessing an assault rifle.

Prosecutors are seeking the death penalty for Bracamontes, who was convicted by a separate jury.

The deputies were killed shortly after the couple arrived in Sacramento during what Monroy said was a wandering journey spurred by Bracamontes' drug-infused paranoia.

___

Information from: The Sacramento Bee, http://www.sacbee.com

WASHINGTON — A lawyer for President Trump broached the idea of Mr. Trump’s pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael T. Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their lawyers last year, according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.

The discussions came as the special counsel was building cases against both men, and they raise questions about whether the lawyer, John Dowd, who resigned last week, was offering pardons to influence their decisions about whether to plead guilty and cooperate in the investigation.

The talks suggest that Mr. Trump’s lawyers were concerned about what Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort might reveal were they to cut a deal with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, in exchange for leniency. Mr. Mueller’s team could investigate the prospect that Mr. Dowd made pardon offers to thwart the inquiry, although legal experts are divided about whether such offers might constitute obstruction of justice.

Mr. Dowd’s conversation with Mr. Flynn’s lawyer, Robert K. Kelner, occurred sometime after Mr. Dowd took over last summer as the president’s personal lawyer, at a time when a grand jury was hearing evidence against Mr. Flynn on a range of potential crimes. Mr. Flynn, who served as Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, agreed in late November to cooperate with the special counsel’s investigation. He pleaded guilty in December to lying to the F.B.I. about his conversations with the Russian ambassador and received favorable sentencing terms.

Mr. Dowd has said privately that he did not know why Mr. Flynn had accepted a plea, according to one of the people. He said he had told Mr. Kelner that the president had long believed that the case against Mr. Flynn was flimsy and was prepared to pardon him, the person said.

The pardon discussion with Mr. Manafort’s attorney, Reginald J. Brown, came before his client was indicted in October on charges of money laundering and other financial crimes. Mr. Manafort, the former chairman of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, has pleaded not guilty and has told others he is not interested in a pardon because he believes he has done nothing wrong and the government overstepped its authority. Mr. Brown is no longer his lawyer.

It is unclear whether Mr. Dowd discussed the pardons with Mr. Trump before bringing them up with the other lawyers.

Mr. Dowd, who was hired last year to defend the president during the Mueller inquiry, took the lead in dealing directly with Mr. Flynn’s and Mr. Manafort’s lawyers, according to two people familiar with how the legal team operated.

He denied on Wednesday that he discussed pardons with lawyers for the president’s former advisers.

“There were no discussions. Period,” Mr. Dowd said. “As far as I know, no discussions.”

Contacted repeatedly over several weeks, the president’s lawyers representing him in the special counsel’s investigation maintained that they knew of no discussions of possible pardons.

“Never during the course of my representation of the president have I had any discussions of pardons of any individual involved in this inquiry,” Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said on Wednesday.

Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, added, “I have only been asked about pardons by the press and have routinely responded on the record that no pardons are under discussion or under consideration at the White House.”

Mr. Kelner and Mr. Brown declined to comment.

During interviews with Mr. Mueller’s investigators in recent months, current and former administration officials have recounted conversations they had with the president about potential pardons for former aides under investigation by the special counsel, according to two people briefed on the interviews.

In one meeting with lawyers from the White House Counsel’s Office last year, Mr. Trump asked about the extent of his pardon power, according to a person briefed on the conversation. The lawyers explained that the president’s powers were broad, the person said. And in other meetings with senior advisers, the president raised the prospect of pardoning Mr. Flynn, according to two people present.

Legal experts are divided about whether a pardon offer, even if given in exchange for continued loyalty, can be considered obstruction of justice. Presidents have constitutional authority to pardon people who face or were convicted of federal charges.

But even if a pardon were ultimately aimed at hindering an investigation, it might still pass legal muster, said Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the George W. Bush administration and a professor at Harvard Law School.

“There are few powers in the Constitution as absolute as the pardon power — it is exclusively the president’s and cannot be burdened by the courts or the legislature,” he said. “It would be very difficult to look at the president’s motives in issuing a pardon to make an obstruction case.”

The remedy for such interference would more likely be found in elections or impeachment than in prosecuting the president, Mr. Goldsmith added.

But pardon power is not unlimited, said Samuel W. Buell, a professor of law at Duke University.

“The framers did not create the power to pardon as a way for the president to protect himself and his associates” from being prosecuted for their own criminal behavior, he said.

Under Mr. Buell’s interpretation, Mr. Dowd’s efforts could be used against the president in an obstruction case if prosecutors want to demonstrate that it was part of larger conspiracy to impede the special counsel investigation.

Mr. Dowd is said to believe that the president has nearly unlimited pardon authority, but he and others have repeatedly insisted that no pardon offers have been made.

In July, amid reports that Mr. Trump was considering granting pardons to his associates under investigation, Mr. Dowd told BuzzFeed that “there is nothing going on on pardons, research — nothing.”

And about two weeks after Mr. Flynn’s guilty plea, Mr. Trump said that such talk was premature.

“I don’t want to talk about pardons for Michael Flynn yet,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Dec. 15 on the South Lawn of the White House. “We’ll see what happens. Let’s see. I can say this: When you look at what’s gone on with the F.B.I. and with the Justice Department, people are very, very angry.”

Mr. Trump has been preoccupied with the investigation into Mr. Flynn since at least early last year. In February 2017, alone in the Oval Office with the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, the president asked him to end the investigation, Mr. Comey told lawmakers. After that episode became public, Mr. Mueller was appointed by the Justice Department to be the special counsel.

On the day after Mr. Flynn pleaded guilty, the president wrote in a Twitter post said to be composed by Mr. Dowd that he fired Mr. Flynn for, among other things, lying to the F.B.I. But Mr. Trump continued to publicly defend his former national security adviser, saying two days later that he felt “very badly” for Mr. Flynn and that the F.B.I. had “destroyed his life.”

It is not clear what Mr. Flynn has told the special counsel as part of his cooperation agreement. During interviews with other witnesses, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have focused on what Mr. Flynn told the president about his calls during the transition with the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak. The calls came soon after the Obama administration announced new sanctions on Russia for its role in disrupting the 2016 presidential campaign.

Mr. Manafort, who ran Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign for several months, has been indicted on dozens of counts of money laundering and other financial crimes connected to his work as a lobbyist and former consultant for Viktor F. Yanukovych, who at the time was president of Ukraine. The charges are not connected to any work that Mr. Manafort did for Mr. Trump.

Rick Gates, who was Mr. Manafort’s business partner for years and also served as deputy chairman of the Trump presidential campaign, pleaded guilty last month as part of a cooperation agreement with Mr. Mueller’s team. On the day the plea agreement was announced, Mr. Manafort vowed to continue to fight the charges against him.

In total, 19 people have been charged with crimes by Mr. Mueller. Five of them, including Mr. Flynn and two other Trump associates, have pleaded guilty and have agreed to cooperate.

In August, Mr. Trump pardoned Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff from Arizona who had been found guilty of federal criminal contempt for refusing to stop targeting Latinos in traffic stops and other law enforcement efforts. The pardon prompted an outcry because Mr. Arpaio, whose crackdown on illegal immigration made him a national symbol for both conservatives and liberals, had supported Mr. Trump’s run for president.

Mr. Trump’s only other pardon came this month, for a sailor who had pleaded guilty to unlawfully retaining national defense information and obstruction of justice after he took cellphone photos on a nuclear submarine and then destroyed the photos when he learned he was under investigation.

When announcing the pardon, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Trump appreciated the sailor’s “service to the country.”

LONDON —  Prime Minister Theresa May will likely win a Brexit deal that suits both sides of her warring party and the EU because the alternative does not bear thinking about, the boss of one of Britain's biggest retailers and a prominent Leave supporter said.

Exactly one year before Britain's formal withdrawal from the EU on March 29, 2019, Next Chief Executive Simon Wolfson said the prospect of achieving consensus within the Conservative Party and between the EU and the British government was growing.

Wolfson has been CEO of clothing retailer Next for 17 years and as a Conservative peer sits in the upper house of Britain's parliament, giving him an insight into the workings of the government and the impact its policies have on consumers.

"The alternative to a deal you don't like is a situation that's much worse, and that is ultimately likely to keep everyone in check," Wolfson told Reuters in an interview at Next's London office.

"If you take an extreme Remain view and say: 'I’m just going to wreck the deal', the alternative is we drop out with no deal at all. Even the most die hard Remainer would prefer to have some form of agreement with the EU.

"Equally if you're a die hard Leaver and say: 'I'm not going to accept anything less than 100 percent independence with 100 percent access to all of the benefits of the EU,' the alternative is the government saying: 'I'm going to ignore you because that's not possible.'"

"Ultimately we have to have a degree of faith in the process of rational debate."

Last week, EU leaders approved a 21-month transition period to help business adapt after Brexit, kicking off possibly the hardest part of the negotiation to agree the bloc's future trading relationship with Britain.

However, until a transition deal is legally ratified, probably later this year, many companies are having to plan for the worst and assume that the UK will crash out of the EU in March 2019.

SENSIBLE

Wolfson said the transition period was sensible, particularly as there was "absolutely no way" the detail of Brexit could be agreed by March 2019.

"The idea of agreeing Heads of Terms (a broad outline of the deal) before going into detail makes complete sense, because in many ways the principles are the hard things to agree to politically and the details are the hard things to agree to practically," he said.

Next trades from over 500 stores in the UK and Ireland and around 200 stores overseas. It imports 15-20 percent of the products it sells from the EU, with the rest from Asia. It sells into 70 countries and employs 45,000 in Britain.

Wolfson, lauded by analysts for his reading of the economic runes, said his ideal scenario was that by end-March 2019 there was UK-EU agreement on no tariffs on goods, an agreement for expedited customs and expedited movement of people, and a recognition that there will be some form of borders.

"Already you can see that on goods there is pretty much broad agreement that there shouldn't be tariffs," he said.

Wolfson, whose great grandfather settled in Glasgow in the late 1890s after fleeing the persecution of Jews on the Polish/Lithuanian border, said that while he recognised the value of immigration there needed to be some controls.

"People think that Brexit was somehow the result of populism, actually in UK politics Brexit has been the antidote to populism and extremism – Brexit has wiped out UKIP," he said, in reference to the pro-Brexit party.

"All that horrible talk about immigration has pretty much disappeared."

JURY'S OUT ON MAY

Wolfson also stressed the Brexit deal is not going to be the make or break of Britain's economy.

"It's important but it's not the sum total of things that will make a difference to the British economy over the next 20 years.

"Things like our approach to planning, infrastructure, transport, the free market and regulation will make as much, if not more, difference," he said.

Wolfson said May had done a good job as a consensus builder, conciliator and honest broker with Europe. But he is not convinced she can go on as leader beyond Brexit.

"I'm not saying that she's not capable of leading us into the next election, but the jury's out."

(Editing by Alexandra Hudson)

WASHINGTON — A lawyer for President Trump broached the idea of Mr. Trump’s pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael T. Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their lawyers last year, according to three people with knowledge of the discussions.

The discussions came as the special counsel was building cases against both men, and they raise questions about whether the lawyer, John Dowd, who resigned last week, was offering pardons to influence their decisions about whether to plead guilty and cooperate in the investigation.

The talks suggest that Mr. Trump’s lawyers were concerned about what Mr. Flynn and Mr. Manafort might reveal were they to cut a deal with the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, in exchange for leniency. Mr. Mueller’s team could investigate the prospect that Mr. Dowd made pardon offers to thwart the inquiry, although legal experts are divided about whether such offers might constitute obstruction of justice.

Mr. Dowd’s conversation with Mr. Flynn’s lawyer, Robert K. Kelner, occurred sometime after Mr. Dowd took over last summer as the president’s personal lawyer, at a time when a grand jury was hearing evidence against Mr. Flynn on a range of potential crimes. Mr. Flynn, who served as Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, agreed in late November to cooperate with the special counsel’s investigation. He pleaded guilty in December to lying to the F.B.I. about his conversations with the Russian ambassador and received favorable sentencing terms.

Mr. Dowd has said privately that he did not know why Mr. Flynn had accepted a plea, according to one of the people. He said he had told Mr. Kelner that the president had long believed that the case against Mr. Flynn was flimsy and was prepared to pardon him, the person said.

The pardon discussion with Mr. Manafort’s attorney, Reginald J. Brown, came before his client was indicted in October on charges of money laundering and other financial crimes. Mr. Manafort, the former chairman of Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign, has pleaded not guilty and has told others he is not interested in a pardon because he believes he has done nothing wrong and the government overstepped its authority. Mr. Brown is no longer his lawyer.

It is unclear whether Mr. Dowd discussed the pardons with Mr. Trump before bringing them up with the other lawyers.

Mr. Dowd, who was hired last year to defend the president during the Mueller inquiry, took the lead in dealing directly with Mr. Flynn’s and Mr. Manafort’s lawyers, according to two people familiar with how the legal team operated.

He denied on Wednesday that he discussed pardons with lawyers for the president’s former advisers.

“There were no discussions. Period,” Mr. Dowd said. “As far as I know, no discussions.”

Contacted repeatedly over several weeks, the president’s lawyers representing him in the special counsel’s investigation maintained that they knew of no discussions of possible pardons.

“Never during the course of my representation of the president have I had any discussions of pardons of any individual involved in this inquiry,” Jay Sekulow, a lawyer for Mr. Trump, said on Wednesday.

Ty Cobb, the White House lawyer dealing with the investigation, added, “I have only been asked about pardons by the press and have routinely responded on the record that no pardons are under discussion or under consideration at the White House.”

Mr. Kelner and Mr. Brown declined to comment.

During interviews with Mr. Mueller’s investigators in recent months, current and former administration officials have recounted conversations they had with the president about potential pardons for former aides under investigation by the special counsel, according to two people briefed on the interviews.

In one meeting with lawyers from the White House Counsel’s Office last year, Mr. Trump asked about the extent of his pardon power, according to a person briefed on the conversation. The lawyers explained that the president’s powers were broad, the person said. And in other meetings with senior advisers, the president raised the prospect of pardoning Mr. Flynn, according to two people present.

Legal experts are divided about whether a pardon offer, even if given in exchange for continued loyalty, can be considered obstruction of justice. Presidents have constitutional authority to pardon people who face or were convicted of federal charges.

But even if a pardon were ultimately aimed at hindering an investigation, it might still pass legal muster, said Jack Goldsmith, a former assistant attorney general in the George W. Bush administration and a professor at Harvard Law School.

“There are few powers in the Constitution as absolute as the pardon power — it is exclusively the president’s and cannot be burdened by the courts or the legislature,” he said. “It would be very difficult to look at the president’s motives in issuing a pardon to make an obstruction case.”

The remedy for such interference would more likely be found in elections or impeachment than in prosecuting the president, Mr. Goldsmith added.

But pardon power is not unlimited, said Samuel W. Buell, a professor of law at Duke University.

“The framers did not create the power to pardon as a way for the president to protect himself and his associates” from being prosecuted for their own criminal behavior, he said.

Under Mr. Buell’s interpretation, Mr. Dowd’s efforts could be used against the president in an obstruction case if prosecutors want to demonstrate that it was part of larger conspiracy to impede the special counsel investigation.

Mr. Dowd is said to believe that the president has nearly unlimited pardon authority, but he and others have repeatedly insisted that no pardon offers have been made.

In July, amid reports that Mr. Trump was considering granting pardons to his associates under investigation, Mr. Dowd told BuzzFeed that “there is nothing going on on pardons, research — nothing.”

And about two weeks after Mr. Flynn’s guilty plea, Mr. Trump said that such talk was premature.

“I don’t want to talk about pardons for Michael Flynn yet,” Mr. Trump told reporters on Dec. 15 on the South Lawn of the White House. “We’ll see what happens. Let’s see. I can say this: When you look at what’s gone on with the F.B.I. and with the Justice Department, people are very, very angry.”

Mr. Trump has been preoccupied with the investigation into Mr. Flynn since at least early last year. In February 2017, alone in the Oval Office with the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, the president asked him to end the investigation, Mr. Comey told lawmakers. After that episode became public, Mr. Mueller was appointed by the Justice Department to be the special counsel.

On the day after Mr. Flynn pleaded guilty, the president wrote in a Twitter post said to be composed by Mr. Dowd that he fired Mr. Flynn for, among other things, lying to the F.B.I. But Mr. Trump continued to publicly defend his former national security adviser, saying two days later that he felt “very badly” for Mr. Flynn and that the F.B.I. had “destroyed his life.”

It is not clear what Mr. Flynn has told the special counsel as part of his cooperation agreement. During interviews with other witnesses, Mr. Mueller’s investigators have focused on what Mr. Flynn told the president about his calls during the transition with the Russian ambassador to the United States at the time, Sergey I. Kislyak. The calls came soon after the Obama administration announced new sanctions on Russia for its role in disrupting the 2016 presidential campaign.

Mr. Manafort, who ran Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign for several months, has been indicted on dozens of counts of money laundering and other financial crimes connected to his work as a lobbyist and former consultant for Viktor F. Yanukovych, who at the time was president of Ukraine. The charges are not connected to any work that Mr. Manafort did for Mr. Trump.

Rick Gates, who was Mr. Manafort’s business partner for years and also served as deputy chairman of the Trump presidential campaign, pleaded guilty last month as part of a cooperation agreement with Mr. Mueller’s team. On the day the plea agreement was announced, Mr. Manafort vowed to continue to fight the charges against him.

In total, 19 people have been charged with crimes by Mr. Mueller. Five of them, including Mr. Flynn and two other Trump associates, have pleaded guilty and have agreed to cooperate.

In August, Mr. Trump pardoned Joe Arpaio, the former sheriff from Arizona who had been found guilty of federal criminal contempt for refusing to stop targeting Latinos in traffic stops and other law enforcement efforts. The pardon prompted an outcry because Mr. Arpaio, whose crackdown on illegal immigration made him a national symbol for both conservatives and liberals, had supported Mr. Trump’s run for president.

Mr. Trump’s only other pardon came this month, for a sailor who had pleaded guilty to unlawfully retaining national defense information and obstruction of justice after he took cellphone photos on a nuclear submarine and then destroyed the photos when he learned he was under investigation.

When announcing the pardon, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, said that Mr. Trump appreciated the sailor’s “service to the country.”

NAIROBI —  A Kenyan high court judge found the Interior Minister and the police chief guilty of contempt on Wednesday and told them to appear for sentencing because they failed to obey a court order to release a detained opposition politician.

Late on Wednesday evening, Kenyan authorities deported opposition politician Miguna Miguna on an Emirates flight, his lawyer Cliff Ombeta said, two days after police detained him on his return to the country. Kenyan authorities deported Miguna in February saying he had rescinded his citizenship but a court ruled he should be allowed back.

The Interior Ministry spokesman could not immediately be reached for comment.

The high court ruling, and the deportation in defiance of court orders, mark a significant escalation in a tussle between the judiciary and the government of President Uhuru Kenyatta, which opposition leaders and other critics say fails to respect the authority of the courts in political matters.

Miguna's deportation could also strain a rapprochement between opposition leader Raila Odinga and Kenyatta, who won a second term in October at an election in which around 100 people were killed, most of them opposition supporters.

Miguna's lawyer said he had no further details of how Miguna was put on the flight, but private Citizen TV channel said he was escorted by security officers.

The deportation is in defiance of at least two court orders for police to release Miguna so that he could present himself in court.

It could increase pressure in Nairobi's High Court, following Judge George Odunga's ruling against Interior Minister Fred Matiang'i, Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinnet and the head of immigration.

Odunga said he would sentence the officials on Thursday even if they did not appear in his courtroom, but it was unclear the impact that would have.

"This matter has reached a level where the judiciary is on trial while top government officials continue to cat walk on its orders," Odunga said in court. Interior ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka declined to comment because the matter is in court.

There was no comment from the police on Wednesday. The interior ministry had denied that Miguna was being held illegally and said he had failed to follow arrival procedures when he landed in Kenya. The politician said in a statement posted on Facebook that he was detained in "a toilet" in an arrivals hall.

Kenyatta and Odinga announced on March 9 they would set aside years of acrimony and work together to unite Kenya, which is divided along political and ethnic lines.

The surprise announcement promised a fresh start for politics in Kenya, a country that is east Africa's richest economy and a hub for diplomacy, trade and security.

(Reporting by Humphrey Malalo; Writing by Maggie Fick; editing by Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Grant McCool)

UNION CITY, N.J. —  Eschewing any mention of the corruption scandal that dogged him for years and put his political career in jeopardy, U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez launched his bid for a third term Wednesday, telling a cheering gymnasium full of high school students that "I am here because I am your vote."

The 64-year-old New Jersey Democrat is being challenged by Bob Hugin, a Republican political newcomer who formerly headed New Jersey-based pharmaceutical company Celgene.

Wednesday's announcement came less than two months after the Department of Justice elected not to retry Menendez on bribery and fraud charges. A trial ended in a hung jury last fall, and Menendez had taken steps to campaign for a third term even in the face of a possible retrial.

"If you kick a lion when he's down, you'd better be careful when he stands up," said Sen. Cory Booker, the only fellow Democrat to refer to Menendez's travails at Wednesday's kick-off event.

Menendez said at a press conference after his mistrial in November that "those who were digging my political grave so they could jump into my seat, I know who you are and I won't forget you."

Menendez and Hugin have strong backing in their parties and are expected to win their separate primary contests in June.

The seat is one that Democrats hope to hold onto in a year when they are defending 10 Senate seats in states President Donald Trump won in 2016, while Republicans work to preserve their narrow 51-vote majority. Trump lost to Hillary Clinton in New Jersey.

Menendez Wednesday assailed Trump's policies on immigration, guns, health care and other issues and said he would fight for New Jerseyans against a president who "divides us, distracts us, but does not deliver for us."

Democratic Gov. Phil Murphy called Menendez New Jersey's "indispensable senator" for his work on immigration, storm recovery after Superstorm Sandy and getting federal funds for a new Hudson River rail tunnel.

Hugin cast Menendez as untrustworthy and selfish because of the now-dropped corruption case against him when he launched his campaign in February.

Megan Piwowar, a spokeswoman for Hugin, said Wednesday that "corrupt career politician Bob Menendez has failed New Jersey," while Menendez campaign adviser Mike Soliman said the senator "stands up to greedy CEOs."

Despite the freshness of the corruption case, Hugin faces a number of hurdles, even with his ability to spend millions of dollars of his own cash to boost his campaign.

New Jersey has not elected a Republican to the Senate since 1972, and Democrats have nearly 900,000 more registered voters than Republicans, though unaffiliated voters are the state's biggest voting bloc.

"We know he can fund himself but what else?" Fairleigh Dickinson University political science professor Peter Woolley said of Hugin. "He is unknown. He is running with an unpopular Republican in the White House. And his Republican base is outnumbered by Democrats. That's already three strikes."

A Quinnipiac University poll in March showed Menendez leading Hugin by 17 points. The poll surveyed 1,052 New Jersey voters and had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 points. The same poll showed slightly more people had an unfavorable view of Menendez than a favorable one, though 46 percent approved of the job he is doing compared with 39 percent who disapproved.

Hugin is a Marine veteran and successful businessman who promises to be an independent voice in Washington.

"With the right candidate you win elections," said Doug Steinhardt, the Republican state party chairman.

In attacking Hugin's business dealings, Democrats cite Celgene's $280 million settlement last year over allegations that it promoted cancer drugs that were not approved by the Food and Drug Administration. Celgene did not admit liability in the agreement.

___

Catalini reported from Trenton, New Jersey.

WASHINGTON —  Between lobbying, campaign contributions and positioning itself as engaged on policy issues like job creation, Amazon.com has long courted a positive relationship with both the White House and Congress that will help it withstand the latest attack from U.S. President Donald Trump.

The company was likely not surprised when Trump criticized it via a post on Twitter on Thursday; he has slammed it in a similar manner previously. Amazon founder Jeff Bezos's decision to purchase The Washington Post has also stoked Trump's ire.

Still, Amazon doesn't appear to be left out of the White House since Trump took office; an official from its Washington, D.C. office participated in an event hosted last week by First Lady Melania Trump to discuss cyber safety and technology.

Disclosures from Amazon indicate they have lobbied the White House on several topics, including immigration, cyber security and drones.

Keeping a cadre of lobbyists has become routine for large companies that risk having their entire business upset by possible congressional or regulatory action.

Amazon employs about 15 lobbyists, according to disclosures submitted to the U.S. Senate. Additionally, the company works with about 15 outside lobbying firms who each assign more lobbyists to work on behalf of the company.

Amazon has wide exposure to various parts of the government capable of regulating their business operations - from federal aviation rules affecting drones to oversight of anti-trust.

The largest online retailer, Amazon is also working aggressively to obtain government contracts to provide services to federal agencies to save data online for them, known as cloud services. Currently, Amazon has a $600 million contract to host data for the Central Intelligence Agency.

The e-commerce giant spent $15.4 million in 2017, up from $12 million a year earlier, on lobbying in Washington.

The company’s lobbying effort more than doubled in 2015 compared with prior years, spending $10.5 million.

Amazon also maintains a corporate political action committee (PAC), a fund that allows the company to collect political donations from employees and then give donations to lawmakers and other politicians running for office.

By the end of February, Amazon's PAC had $1.1 million in cash. The committee spent more than $718,000 in 2017 and the first two months of 2018.

The cash spent by Amazon was divided between Republicans and Democrats. For example, in 2017 the PAC gave both the Democratic and Republican congressional committees $15,000.

(Reporting by Ginger Gibson)

INDIANAPOLIS —  Attorneys for a Guatemalan man living illegally in the U.S have ended their effort to have his confession thrown out in a suspected drunken-driving crash that killed Indianapolis Colts linebacker Edwin Jackson and his Uber driver.

Attorney John Tompkins told Marion County Judge Grant Hawkins during a Tuesday pre-trial hearing for Manuel Orrego-Savala that he had withdrawn a motion to suppress his client's statements to a state trooper after the Feb. 4 crash in Indianapolis.

Investigators said in a probable cause affidavit that Orrego-Savala admitted to the trooper that he was driving the pickup truck involved in the crash.

His attorneys had argued in a motion filed Feb. 20 that Orrego-Savala's admission shouldn't be allowed because he wasn't first read his rights.

Orrego-Savala, 37, faces four felony charges in the crash that killed Jackson, 26, and his Uber driver, Jeffrey Monroe, 54, as the two men stood outside Monroe's car along Interstate 70 in Indianapolis. Investigators said Monroe was transporting Jackson for the ride-sharing service, and had pulled over after the football player became ill.

Orrego-Savala had a blood-alcohol level of 0.19 percent, which is more than twice Indiana's legal limit of .08 percent, according to court documents. He remains jailed and a not guilty plea has been entered on his behalf.

Orrego-Savala was deported from the U.S. in 2007 and 2009 and was back in the country illegally at the time of the crash, authorities said.

The case became a flash point in the nation's immigration debate, with President Donald Trump tweeting about it and Republican U.S. Senate candidate Mike Braun featuring it in an Indiana campaign advertisement.

Although Orrego-Savala's attorneys have withdrawn their motion to suppress the confession they can again seek to have it thrown out if they wish, said Ryan Mears, chief trial deputy for the Marion County Prosecutor's Office.

Hawkins approved an order Tuesday requiring Orrego-Savala to provide a DNA sample prosecutors have sought after his attorneys did not oppose their request.

Mears said that sample will be compared to DNA found in a pickup truck to determine Orrego-Savala's presence in that vehicle. He said those tests will "certainly be helpful if his DNA is found at the scene, particularly inside the vehicle we think he was driving."

Prosecutors have also said the sample would confirm his identity, noting that he has used various aliases.

Orrego-Savala's next pre-trial hearing in the case is scheduled for May 18.

BERLIN —  More babies were born in Germany in 2016 than in any year since 1996, thanks to a booming economy, government incentives and a surge in migration, data showed on Wednesday.

Europe's biggest economy and its public pension system are struggling with a rapid aging of the population. In an effort to boost the birth rate, the government has expanded maternity and paternity benefits as well as childcare in the last decade.

Chancellor Angela Merkel's decision in 2015 to welcome more than a million refugees, mainly from war zones in Syria and Iraq, has also been described as a demographic game changer.

The Federal Statistics Office said 792,131 babies were born in Germany in 2016, up 7 percent on the year before, and the highest number since 1996.

Women between 30 and 37, who had fewer children when they were younger, are now catching up due to favorable economic conditions and family incentives, it said.

Germany is enjoying an unusually prolonged growth cycle, now in its ninth year, as record employment and ultra-low borrowing costs propel a consumer-led upswing.

But while births to German citizens were up 3 percent to around 607,500 babies, the rise was far outstripped by births to citizens of other countries, up a huge 25 percent at 184,660.

"The number of women from countries with a traditionally high birth rate has risen," the office said.

A breakdown of the data showed the number of Syrian babies nearly quadrupled to 18,500, those with Iraqi mothers doubled to 5,500 and those with Afghan mothers tripled to 5,900.

The overall fertility rate - the average number of children a woman has in her lifetime - rose to 1.59 from 1.50 in the previous year, the highest level since 1973.

But although the rate among German women edged up slightly to 1.46 children, that among foreign women was more than 50 percent higher at 2.28.

Despite the rise in births and immigration, experts still estimate that Germany's working-age population, whose pension contributions support the growing number of retirees, is likely to shrink in the next decade.

The average fertility rate in the European Union is 1.60, according to the EU statistics office, Eurostat. France has the highest, with 1.92, and Spain and Italy the lowest, with 1.34.

(Reporting by Michael Nienaber; Editing by Kevin Liffey)

ROME —  Italy on Thursday arrested five men in an operation against suspected supporters of Islamist terrorism, police said, after tracing the phone contacts of the Berlin truck attacker shot in Milan in late 2016.

Four of the men, all Tunisians, were arrested on suspicion of conspiring to aid illegal immigration, while a fifth man, who is also believed to be Tunisian, was picked up for allegedly plotting militant attacks, prosecutor Sergio Colaiocco said.

While the suspects played no part in the December 2016 truck attack in Berlin that killed 12 people, police discovered them by following the telephone records of Anis Amri, the Tunisian man shot dead near Milan four days after the assault on the Christmas market.

"No link at all has been found" between the men and the Berlin attack, said Walter Dian, an anti-terrorism police official from Latina, a city south of the capital.

Instead, police said Amri may have been heading south to acquire false documents from them.

Amri was brought to Italy after being rescued at sea from a migrant boat in February 2011, and he later spent almost four years in prison in Sicily for vandalism, threats and theft. In 2015, he was released and told to leave the country. He went to Germany.

"There's no concrete evidence that leads us to think a specific attack was planned, but there is enough proof for us to think that this was where things were heading," Colaiocco told reporters, referring to the man arrested on terrorism charges.

He had consulted the Internet on how to use a missile launcher, and he had looked into the cost of renting a pick-up truck as well, the prosecutor said.

Italy has already expelled other three men tied to Amri on evidence that they had become radicalized Islamists amid a general increase in expulsions over the past year.

As part of their operation, police were carrying out searches in Rome, the southern port city of Naples and the central and southern towns of Latina, Viterbo, Caserta and Matera, investigators said.

Thursday's sweep is not connected to a series of similar raids this month, police said.

On Wednesday anti-terrorism police arrested an Italian citizen of Moroccan origin who they said was an Islamic State sympathizer planning a possible truck attack.

Interior Minister Marco Minniti said on Wednesday the security threat to Italy from Islamic State supporters was higher than ever because more foreign fighters were attempting to return to Europe via Italy after the jihadist group suffered defeats in Syria and Iraq.

So far this year, 29 foreigners, mostly Muslims, have been expelled from Italy as suspected threats to national security.

(Writing by Gavin Jones and Steve Scherer; Editing by Alison Williams)

ZURICH —  Switzerland revived plans on Wednesday to contribute an extra 1.3 billion Swiss francs ($1.4 billion) for newer European Union members as relations with its biggest trading partner began improving after a spat at the end of last year.

Non-EU Switzerland contributes to a wide range of projects in the 13 mostly ex-communist countries that have joined the bloc since 2004, payments that help guarantee its own continued access to the EU's single market.

Bern had suggested it might not pay out a second 10-year package after a row erupted in December over Swiss stock exchanges' access to the EU single market.

But its cabinet on Wednesday agreed to move ahead with domestic political consultations on the plan which will need parliamentary approval.

The government tied the payment to "the status and progress of overall relations between Switzerland and the EU, in particular developments with respect to the EU's recognition of the regulatory equivalence of the Swiss stock exchange".

Switzerland had accused the EU of trying to undermine its financial center by granting its stock exchanges only temporary access to the bloc.

Diplomats say the mood has brightened since Bern laid out its negotiating position this month on a new treaty Brussels wants that would formalize ties now governed by a patchwork of bilateral sectoral accords.

It was the first time that the seven cabinet members from four parties have agreed on a unified platform for talks, a major step forward after their squabbling hampered years of negotiations and frustrated the EU.

A European Commission spokeswoman said the Swiss contribution was "the natural consequence of Switzerland's access to the internal market".

Asked about the potential impact on stock exchanges, she said: "We will consider the situation in the course of this year, notably with regards to progress made on the institutional framework agreement."

That treaty would see the Swiss adopt EU laws governing the single market, with the European Court of Justice giving its opinion on disputes on how to interpret single-market rules.

This is opposed by the anti-immigration Swiss People's Party, the largest in parliament, which has two cabinet seats.

Many Swiss conservatives are wary of giving "foreign judges" such power, and both sides are now talking about setting up arbitration panels to help break the impasse.

(Additional reporting by Francesco Guarascio in Brussels; Editing by Gareth Jones and Robin Pomeroy)

WASHINGTON —  U.S. President Donald Trump on Tuesday ordered an end to special legal status for certain immigrants from Liberia, including some who have lived in the United States for decades, citing improved conditions in the West African country.

The special status would end on March 31, 2019.

"Liberia is no longer experiencing armed conflict and has made significant progress in restoring stability and democratic governance," according to a memorandum signed by Trump and released by the White House.

Trump has pursued a crackdown on legal and illegal immigration since becoming president.

Some Liberians have been eligible for either Temporary Protected Status or Deferred Enforced Departure since March 1991 due to civil wars, fragile political and economic conditions and an Ebola virus outbreak in 2014, the memorandum said.

"Liberia has also concluded reconstruction from prior conflicts, which has contributed significantly to an environment that is able to handle adequately the return of its nationals," Trump said.

"The 2014 outbreak of Ebola Virus Disease caused a tragic loss of life and economic damage to the country, but Liberia has made tremendous progress in its ability to diagnose and contain future outbreaks of the disease," he said.

A 12-month "wind-down" period starting March 31, 2018, would  allow the Liberian government to prepare to re-integrate returning citizens and give time for affected Liberians to "make necessary arrangements," according to the memorandum, which was addressed to the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).

The Liberian Embassy in Washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment. DHS officials did not immediately respond to a request seeking numbers of those who will be affected.

Trump previously included three other African countries -- Chad, Somalia and Libya -- among several whose citizens were blocked from entering the United States.

African politicians and diplomats blasted Trump in January after he was reported to have used vulgar language to describe African countries and Haiti, with some calling him a racist. Trump later denied making the remark.

In early January, the administration announced that around 200,000 Salvadorans would lose their Temporary Protected Status in September, 2019. Some 59,000 Haitians and 5,300 Nicaraguans who are in the program would also lose their status next year, while TPS for some 57,000 Hondurans expires July 5, 2018.

(Reporting by Eric Walsh; Editing by Eric Beech and Will Dunham)

INDIANAPOLIS —  Attorneys for a Guatemalan man living illegally in the U.S have ended their effort to have his confession thrown out in a suspected drunken-driving crash that killed Indianapolis Colts linebacker Edwin Jackson and his Uber driver.

Attorney John Tompkins told Marion County Judge Grant Hawkins during a Tuesday pre-trial hearing for Manuel Orrego-Savala that he had withdrawn a motion to suppress his client's statements to a state trooper after the Feb. 4 crash in Indianapolis.

Investigators said in a probable cause affidavit that Orrego-Savala admitted to the trooper that he was driving the pickup truck involved in the crash.

His attorneys had argued in a motion filed Feb. 20 that Orrego-Savala's admission shouldn't be allowed because he wasn't first read his rights.

Orrego-Savala, 37, faces four felony charges in the crash that killed Jackson, 26, and his Uber driver, Jeffrey Monroe, 54, as the two men stood outside Monroe's car along Interstate 70 in Indianapolis. Investigators said Monroe was transporting Jackson for the ride-sharing service, and had pulled over after the football player became ill.

Orrego-Savala had a blood-alcohol level of 0.19 percent, which is more than twice Indiana's legal limit of .08 percent, according to court documents. He remains jailed and a not guilty plea has been entered on his behalf.

Orrego-Savala was deported from the U.S. in 2007 and 2009 and was back in the country illegally at the time of the crash, authorities said.

The case became a flash point in the nation's immigration debate, with President Donald Trump tweeting about it and Republican U.S. Senate candidate Mike Braun featuring it in an Indiana campaign advertisement.

Although Orrego-Savala's attorneys have withdrawn their motion to suppress the confession they can again seek to have it thrown out if they wish, said Ryan Mears, chief trial deputy for the Marion County Prosecutor's Office.

Hawkins approved an order Tuesday requiring Orrego-Savala to provide a DNA sample prosecutors have sought after his attorneys did not oppose their request.

Mears said that sample will be compared to DNA found in a pickup truck to determine Orrego-Savala's presence in that vehicle. He said those tests will "certainly be helpful if his DNA is found at the scene, particularly inside the vehicle we think he was driving."

Prosecutors have also said the sample would confirm his identity, noting that he has used various aliases.

Orrego-Savala's next pre-trial hearing in the case is scheduled for May 18.

ACCRA —  Thousands of people protested in Ghana's capital Accra on Wednesday against the expansion of its defense cooperation with the United States, in a rare public display of opposition to the growing foreign military presence in West Africa.

Demonstrators blowing vuvuzelas and beating drums filled Accra's business district, holding placards criticizing a new deal with Washington that they say threatens Ghana's sovereignty.

"As a right-thinking citizen, I am here to fight for my country. I am against selling our peace and security for $20 million," said Gifty Yankson, a 49-year-old trader.

"They (the American military) become a curse everywhere they are, and I am not ready to mortgage my security," Yankson said.

Police estimated the crowd size at about 3,500 protesters. While officers in riot gear were present, no violence was reported.

International powers including the United States and France are looking to extend their presence in the remote Sahel region in particular, where al Qaeda and Islamic State militants have gained a strong foothold in recent years.

But Washington is struggling to mend its image in Africa, which was damaged by reports President Donald Trump described African nations as "shithole countries" in a discussion on immigration. The White House later denied he used that language.

Under the deal approved by Ghana's parliament last week, the United States will invest around $20 million in training and equipment for the Ghanaian military this year. Opposition lawmakers boycotted the parliamentary vote.

In return, the U.S. military will be allowed to deploy troops and import military equipment tax-free, use an airport runway that meets U.S. standards, and have free access to Ghana's radio spectrum.

Ghana has had a long-standing military and trade ties with the United States, but many say the latest agreement was a step too far.

Responding to local press reports concerning the deal, the U.S. Embassy in Accra underscored in a statement last week that it had no plans to establish a military base in Ghana.

It said the existing 20-year-old cooperation agreement "does not cover the current range and volume of bilateral exercises and assistance."

Four elite U.S. soldiers were killed in Niger alongside local troops in an Islamist ambush in October, sparking a fierce debate back home about covert U.S. actions in West Africa.

The United States has about 7,200 U.S. Defense Department personnel, including soldiers, stationed in Africa. Over half of those are stationed at Camp Lemonnier in Djibouti, with the remaining personnel scattered across 32 other smaller locations.

(Reporting By Kwasi Kpodo; Writing by Edward McAllister; Editing by Joe Bavier and Hugh Lawson)

CANBERRA, Australia —  Australia's former Prime Minister Tony Abbott hinted Tuesday that he still holds leadership ambitions as his replacement struggles to turn around the government's disastrous opinion polling.

Abbott dropped the hint while launching a book by a former bitter political opponent, Pauline Hanson, who leads the anti-Islam, anti-immigration and pro-President Donald Trump minor party, One Nation.

Hanson was voted out of Parliament after a single three-year term in 1998. But the pair have put their animosity behind them since Hanson was elected to the Senate in 2016.

Abbott, who remains a government lawmaker outside the Cabinet, praised One Nation's three senators for helping the ruling conservative coalition pass legislation through the upper chamber, where the government does not hold a majority of seats.

"If I may say so Pauline, adversity has made you a better, deeper person, and you are certainly confirmation of that old adage that you are always better the second time around," Abbott said at the book launch.

Asked later if the same adage applied to him, Abbott replied, "That's an entirely hypothetical question and I couldn't possibly comment."

The pointed comment comes at a sensitive stage of Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull's leadership.

Turnbull replaced Abbott in 2015 by forcing a leadership ballot among lawmakers in the ruling conservative Liberal Party. Part of Turnbull's justification for the change was that the coalition government under Abbott's leadership trailed the opposition Labor Party in 30 consecutive opinion polls conducted by the respected market researcher Newspoll.

The government barely scraped back into power under Turnbull in 2016 elections. Turnbull's government on Monday lost its 29th consecutive Newspoll survey to Labor.

Questioned about the poll, Turnbull told reporters he was focusing on creating more jobs and getting business tax cuts through the Senate.

Newspolls are published by The Australian newspaper every two or three weeks and are widely reported as reliable indications of voters' intentions.

Hanson would not be drawn in on whether she would prefer Abbott or Turnbull as prime minister.

"It' not my decision, it's up to the party room," Hanson said, referring to meetings of Liberal Party lawmakers that determine who will be their leader.

WASHINGTON —  With passage of an enormous budget bill, the GOP-controlled Congress all but wrapped up its legislating for the year. But will it be enough to convince voters to give Republicans another term at the helm?

In two big ways, Republicans have done what they promised. They passed a long sought tax overhaul bill that slashed tax rates. They've rolled back regulations, in ways they claim are boosting the economy. In the Senate, they confirmed a justice to the Supreme Court.

But there are signs Americans wanted more: immigration reforms, gun control legislation, even an infrastructure plan that President Donald Trump promised voters. Tax cuts, for now, will have to do.

"It's very clear that tax reform was going to be the biggest legislative crown jewel of this Congress," said Matt Gorman, the spokesman for the House GOP's campaign arm, the National Republican Congressional Committee. "That is a massive centerpiece of our campaign."

But polls swing wildly these days, strategists said. Voters are rarely focused for too long on single issues that can make or break campaigns, as when Republicans seized control of the House in 2010 amid the economic downturn or Democrats pushed to the majority in 2006 over opposition to the Iraq and Afghanistan wars and congressional ethics scandals.

Trump's mixed messages on the GOP's accomplishments only make the campaigning more difficult. At the White House on Friday, he toyed with a veto of the $1.3 trillion budget package, complaining it lacked his immigration deal and smacked of overspending, before ultimately signing it. Such shifting views leave Republicans without a reliable partner as they try to push through political headwinds in what's expected to be a tough battle for majority control of the House and Senate.

Lawmakers left town for a two-week recess that marks the unofficial end of the legislating season having shelved resolution of other issues.

Congress failed to pass legislation to curb rising health insurance premiums or protect young immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation, two issues that have stirred voters this year. And ahead of the nationwide "March for Our Lives" protests against gun violence, lawmakers took modest steps to boost school safety funds and improve compliance with the federal gun purchase background check system.

Kris Brown, co-president of the Brady Campaign to Prevent Gun Violence, said the measures are "just not enough."

"The American people have been screaming from the rooftops for real, bold change to fight against" tragedies such as the Florida and Las Vegas shootings, Brown said. "We have seen the consequences of Congress's inaction."

Congress' spring agenda is thin. It includes modest plans to finish a banking bill that rolls back some of the regulations put in place after the financial crisis and pass a big farm bill that sets agriculture and school nutrition policies. The Senate also has to begin confirmation hearings for Trump's nominees for secretary of state and CIA director.

The one legislative lift will be another spending bill when the one Trump signed into law expires at the end of September. But it may bring more political risk than reward for Republicans, since conservatives largely sided with the president against this one, and could pose a more serious threat of voter revolt in the fall.

Strategists say it will be up to candidates to make the case that GOP's signature legislative accomplishment is worth their re-election.

Democrats have been hammering on the tax law as a giveaway to big business, in part because the steep reduction in corporate rates, from 35 percent to 21 percent, is permanent while the reduced rates for individuals and other provisions for families, including expanded child tax credits, expire in coming years.

House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi has derided the lopsided benefits for households as "crumbs" — a quip Republicans eagerly throw back at Democrats.

To prop up public opinion of the GOP's top accomplishment, millions are being spent by outside groups. American Action Network, which is aligned with House Speaker Paul Ryan, is unleashing more than $30 million in ads, and the network backed by the influential Koch brothers will spend more than $20 million, heaping praise on lawmakers who voted for the tax cuts and informing voters about those who didn't.

And with passage of tax cuts so important to the GOP election effort, Republicans might take the unusual step of trying to pass them again.

"We think there's more we can do," Ryan said.

House GOP leaders are seriously considering legislation this summer — "Tax Cuts 2" — that would try to build on the original bill that became law in December by making the individual tax cuts permanent.

A do-over tax cuts bill is not expected to pass this Congress. But setting up another showdown accomplishes political goals for Republicans by turning attention back on the tax law, and pushing Democrats into the uncomfortable position of voting against it, again.

Americans for Prosperity, one of the groups in the Koch network, launched an ad campaign urging Congress to fortify the law by making tax cuts permanent. "More needs to be done," the group says on a website for its advocacy.

"Even if there are things that get passed between now and the fall, the bottom line is the single most important piece of legislation is going to be the tax bill," said veteran strategist David Winston, who advises House and Senate GOP leadership. "That defines what this Congress is about."

___

WASHINGTON — Attorney General Jeff Sessions said on Friday that the Justice Department was proposing to ban so-called bump stocks through regulations rather than wait for Congress to act, a move that defies recommendations by federal law enforcement officials and could subject the department to litigation from gun rights groups.

Mr. Sessions’s announcement came moments after President Trump said on Twitter that the Justice Department would imminently announce a rule banning bump stocks.

It also comes amid rising public pressure on Washington to curb gun violence after a mass shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., that left 17 people dead last month. Students will gather Saturday in Washington to protest gun violence for an event called March for Our Lives.

The Justice Department’s proposed rule “would define ‘machine gun’ to include bump-stock-type devices under federal law — effectively banning them,” Mr. Sessions said in a statement.

The proposed bump stock ban would defy the conclusion of Justice Department officials who have said that they could not, under existing law, stop the sales of bump stocks, accessories that allow semiautomatic guns to mimic automatic fire, and that congressional action was needed to ban them. But Mr. Sessions said the department had worked around those concerns.

“After the senseless attack in Las Vegas,” Mr. Sessions said, “this proposed rule is a critical step in our effort to reduce the threat of gun violence that is in keeping with the Constitution and the laws passed by Congress.”

The 55-page proposal, which was published for public comment, said it was redefining machine guns to include bump stocks because “such devices allow a shooter of a semiautomatic firearm to initiate a continuous firing cycle with a single pull of the trigger.”

The proposal would force bump stock owners to surrender or destroy them the day the rule would go into effect.

A previous Justice Department review, done by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, was prompted by the mass shooting last fall in Las Vegas, where a gunman killed 58 people using semiautomatic weapons outfitted with bump stocks.

By working around the A.T.F.’s earlier interpretation, the Justice Department essentially said that the statute had not changed, but that it could now be read in a different way.

By reinterpreting the conclusion that was made under President Barack Obama, the Justice Department could open itself up to lawsuits when the rule is finalized. Litigation would tie up the bump stock ban in the courts.

Legal experts say that groups that sue could win because bump stock makers specifically designed the devices so they could not qualify as machine guns under the law.

“When you pull the trigger once on a machine gun, multiple bullets fire, whereas each pull of a trigger fires a single round with bump stocks,” said Josh Blackman, a professor at South Texas College of Law in Houston. “People designed it this way deliberately to keep bump stocks from being defined as machine guns under the statute. It’s like the difference between tax avoidance and tax evasion. The first is specifically to avoid being illegal.”

The controversial new rule is in keeping with Mr. Sessions’s practice of closely hewing to White House political directives, sometimes remaining silent in the face of criticism from Mr. Trump and other times rebuking his own employees.

Before the Justice Department issued any measures of its own, Mr. Trump had publicly declared that he would use executive authority to ban bump stocks, and he ordered the department to find a way to prohibit them.

This month, the Justice Department announced an array of initiatives designed to address the issue of gun violence, sometimes echoing measures that had already been proposed by Mr. Trump.

The department said it would help local law enforcement officials hire more school resource officers, help local firearms training programs work with teachers and help states provide faster, more accurate and complete information to databases used in federal firearms background checks. It also said it would provide a $1 million emergency grant to Florida to help cover law enforcement costs related to the Parkland shooting.

Mr. Trump had said earlier that he supported the inclusion of mental health information in the background check system and the arming of teachers as part of an effort to deter school shootings.

Mr. Sessions also ordered federal prosecutors to more aggressively prosecute gun buyers who lie on gun purchasing applications, a move that The New York Times reported last month.

Each year, thousands of prospective gun owners who apply to buy guns through the National Instant Criminal Background Check System are found unqualified to purchase a firearm.

It is a felony to lie on that application, but the crime is rarely prosecuted. From 2008 to 2015, prosecutors considered fewer than 32 cases a year, according to the Justice Department’s inspector general.

“Under my tenure as attorney general, we have already increased federal gun prosecutions to a 10-year high — and we are just getting started,” Mr. Sessions said when he announced those measures.

Those past directives acknowledged that gun violence is a problem, but they were unlikely to upset opponents of more restrictive gun policies. In the past, the National Rifle Association has supported some forms of bump-stock regulation, the enforcement of existing gun laws and some background check legislation.

But the Justice Department’s latest move, which Mr. Sessions previewed in an announcement this month, will be met with more opposition.

“You need Congress to pass a statute,” Mr. Blackman said. “That’s how you change a law, not through executive action.”

BERLIN —  German Interior Minister Horst Seehofer said on Friday he would not change his views on Islam, striking a defiant note just two days after Chancellor Angela Merkel put him down for challenging the place of the religion in Germany.

Merkel appointed Seehofer, who leads her conservative Bavarian allies, to her cabinet as interior minister under a coalition deal struck earlier this month. Barely a week into the job, he has already strained the fragile 'grand coalition'.

"I will not change my politics a jot," Seehofer told Der Spiegel magazine, which said he was deeply annoyed by Merkel contradicting him.

A week ago, Seehofer told the Bild daily that "Islam does not belong" in Germany, prompting Merkel to say on Wednesday during her first government statement to parliament since starting her fourth term in office: "Islam has become part of Germany."

Germany is home to some four million Muslims, including many Turks who have lived there for decades as well as migrants and asylum seekers who arrived in the past few years, many fleeing conflicts in Syria, Iraq and elsewhere.

Seehofer, who leads the Christian Social Union (CSU), the Bavarian sister party of Merkel's Christian Democratic Union (CDU), has long been a thorn in the chancellor's side - especially over immigration and the role of migrants in Germany.

But whereas he was not in the last government, he now leads the powerful interior ministry, restyled to include a 'homeland' portfolio - a ploy widely seen as being aimed at winning back voters lost to the anti-immigrant Alternative for Germany (AfD).

BAVARIAN ELECTION

Seehofer is concerned that his CSU will lose ground to the AfD in a regional election in October in Bavaria, where refugees flooded across the border during Europe's 2015 migrant crisis.

The left-leaning Social Democrats, who are partners with the CDU and CSU in the ruling coalition, have accused him of using his new ministerial post to campaign for the Bavarian election.

In his first speech to parliament as interior minister, Seehofer on Friday promised a zero-tolerance approach both to borders being overrun and to hate crimes committed against people of other beliefs.

Seehofer also said that militant Islamists pose a threat to national security and said there should be border controls between neighboring EU states so long as the European Union's external borders are not controlled effectively.

Seehofer, who during the 2015 refugee crisis repeatedly criticized Merkel's "open-door" policy for asylum seekers, reaffirmed his plans to curb migration and facilitate deportations of those who have no right to stay.

(Reporting By Riham Alkousaa; Editing by Gareth Jones)

DENVER —  U.S. prosecutors told a jury Thursday that a Philadelphia man frustrated by mistreatment of Muslims used codes and other deception to hide a $300 payment in support of a terrorist group, but defense attorneys said the native of Uzbekistan was only paying down a debt to an acquaintance.

Opening statements marked the start of a Denver trial that is expected to include testimony from international witnesses using aliases and disguises, transcripts of phone and email conversations in at least three languages and a team of translators dedicated to helping the defendant understand the proceedings.

Federal authorities arrested Bakhtiyor Jumaev more than six years ago at his apartment in Philadelphia. The case is being tried in Colorado because the man who received the money lived in suburban Denver at the time.

Jumaev is charged with conspiring to provide material support to a terrorist organization and providing or attempting to provide material support.

Prosecutors said Jumaev became close with another Uzbek native, co-defendant Jamshid Muhtorov, when they briefly shared an apartment. The men discussed a group called the Islamic Jihad Union in phone calls and emails, using code words including "wedding" to refer to jihad or fighting, prosecutor Gregory Holloway said in his opening statement.

After his arrest, Jumaev confessed to knowing that it was a crime to send money to terrorist groups and to using code words, Holloway added.

"They decided to finally act on their resentment and their anger," Holloway said. "And you will see from the evidence, they took steps to get money to this terrorist group."

Jumaev's attorney, David Barry Savitz, told jurors that his client is an immigrant who left his wife and three sons in 2000 in Uzbekistan, frightened by mistreatment of Muslims under an authoritarian leader. He said Jumaev worked a variety of jobs, sending most of his paychecks back to the family.

But after Jumaev was arrested by immigration authorities in 2010, he was in a financial hole and needed help to afford bond, he said.

Muhtorov, the roommate, chipped in $500, and Jumaev was determined to pay him back, the attorney said. Authorities who had been investigating Muhtorov for months misunderstood a recorded phone conversation referring to the debt payment as a "wedding gift," Savitz said.

Defense attorneys also argued that Jumaev's confession was coerced, saying he was arrested following an overnight shift cleaning grocery stores and interrogated for several hours until he felt "like a broken man."

"He considered himself trapped," Savitz said. "He was scared. He was exhausted."

Muhtorov, who is being tried separately, was arrested in January 2012 at a Chicago airport. Prosecutors said he was preparing to board a flight overseas, with $2,800 in cash.

Authorities have said they also found propaganda videos from terrorist groups on his phone. Muhtorov's attorneys have said he denies the allegations.

LONDON —  The initial boon that the British travel and tourism sector got from the country's vote to leave the European Union appears to be wearing off.

Figures from the Office for National Statistics on Friday showed that the number of overseas residents visiting the country in the last three months of 2017 was down 7 percent from the year before, while their total spending decreased by 3 percent.

In 2017 as a whole, visitor numbers rose 3 percent to 38.9 million while spending swelled by 8 percent to 24.3 billion pounds ($34.3 billion).

Overall, the sector enjoyed a solid year as the sharp fall in the value of the pound following the Brexit vote in June 2016 made Britain a more attractive holiday destination, particularly for a country widely perceived as one of the more expensive places to visit.

Further clarity over whether the fourth quarter decline is a sign of things to come will emerge in coming months. After all, the sector enjoyed a big bounce in the latter part of 2016 in the immediate aftermath of the Brexit vote as tourists took advantage of the lower pound. As a result, a fallback was always likely.

Though the initial impact of the Brexit vote has been positive for the sector, the sector faces a series of challenges.

One relates to staffing — a large number of the people employed in the sector come from EU countries, so a clampdown on post-Brexit immigration could do big damage.

There's also uncertainty about the future aviation arrangements between Britain and the EU. The British government wants a post-Brexit agreement that will allow it to retain easy access to EU markets. And tougher border restrictions related to security could also dissuade visitors.

Britain is currently in the midst of negotiations with the other 27 EU nations over the terms of their future relationship. Issues related to migration, aviation and security are high up in those discussions but the sides have yet to strike any definitive agreements.

Britain is due to leave the EU on March 29, 2019 and both sides have agreed on a transition period lasting until the end of 2020, during which time the current economic arrangements remain in place.

"If the U.K. is to benefit from the significant opportunities offered by tourism over the coming years, I would encourage the government to prioritize the needs of the sector," said Gloria Guevara, president and CEO of the World Travel and Tourism Council.

"The prize is nearly 40 billion pounds in exports per year and around 400,000 new jobs — vital for the economic success of Britain outside the European Union."

(Reuters) - Campaigning for Mexico's elections officially begins on Friday, with a left-wing candidate who promises to clean up politics and reduce the country's dependence on the United States leading all major opinion polls for the presidency.

Here are some facts on the presidential candidates:

ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADOR

Two-time runner up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.

He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating toward the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.

Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, 64 year-old Lopez Obrador has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign, touting a slogan of "peace and love" and saying he is not looking for revenge against the current government.

But Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital's new airport, spooking investors.

When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organized a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.

RICARDO ANAYA

The youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.

Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39 year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country's governorships for the first time in its history.

His main proposals include a universal basic income and a international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.

Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta where his wife and three children lived and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.

Anaya denied the allegations.

He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming the president of the federal lower house in 2013.

JOSE ANTONIO MEADE

At the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.

Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance under PRI and PAN governments.

His critics blame him for a hike in gas prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.

MARGARITA ZAVALA

Zavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.

The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico's first ever female president.

In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN's executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.

She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon's policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.

If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.

(Reporting by Diego Ore; compiled by Christine Murray; editing by Grant McCool)

(Reuters) - Campaigning for Mexico's elections officially begins on Friday, with a left-wing candidate who promises to clean up politics and reduce the country's dependence on the United States leading all major opinion polls for the presidency.

Here are some facts on the presidential candidates:

ANDRES MANUEL LOPEZ OBRADOR

Two-time runner up Lopez Obrador, known as AMLO, is running on an anti-corruption platform with his National Regeneration Movement (MORENA) party and he has a double-digit lead in opinion polls.

He could usher in a Mexican government less accommodating towards the United States, where President Donald Trump has stoked trade tensions with Mexico and aggressively moved to curb immigration.

Variously described as a leftist, a populist and a nationalist, 64 year-old Lopez Obrador has aimed for a moderate tone in this campaign, touting a slogan of "peace and love" and saying he is not looking for revenge against the current government.

But Lopez Obrador, a former Mexico City mayor, has also promised to review recently awarded oil contracts and threatened to cancel the capital's new airport, spooking investors.

When he narrowly lost his first presidential bid in 2006, he contested the result and organised a sit-in that closed one of the main thoroughfares in Mexico City for weeks, causing chaos. Lopez Obrador says he has changed since then.

RICARDO ANAYA

The youngest of the four presidential candidates, Anaya sprung to prominence when he took over presidency of the conservative National Action Party (PAN) in 2015.

Born in the small, central state of Queretaro, the 39 year-old career politician helped the party take more than 10 of the country's governorships for the first time in its history.

His main proposals include a universal basic income and a international commission to investigate the current government over corruption allegations.

Anaya has been criticized for his frequent trips to Atlanta where his wife and three children lived and over a real estate deal the ruling party said was money laundering.

Anaya denied the allegations.

He joined the PAN as a law student and held several senior positions in the Queretaro state government between 2002 and 2009 before becoming the president of the federal lower house in 2013.

JOSE ANTONIO MEADE

At the end of 2017, in an attempt to clean up its image and as Lopez Obrador took off in opinion polls, the ruling Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) chose a non-member as its candidate for the first time.

Meade, 49, has served in five different ministerial jobs including minister of foreign affairs, social development, energy and finance under PRI and PAN governments.

His critics blame him for a hike in gas prices in 2017 that led to protests across Mexico and spiked inflation, and tie him to corruption accusations at departments he ran. He denies any wrongdoing.

MARGARITA ZAVALA

Zavala is the only independent candidate on the ballot after a scandal over falsified signatures knocked out two of her opponents.

The former first lady left the PAN in 2017, in a split with fellow candidate Ricardo Anaya. Mexico City-born Zavala would be Mexico's first ever female president.

In the 1990s, Zavala was a lawmaker in the Mexico City assembly and the chief lawyer for the PAN's executive committee. She was later a federal congresswoman.

She faces criticism for her husband Felipe Calderon's policy of putting soldiers on the streets when he was president, during a war on drug gangs that saw tens of thousands killed.

If elected, Zavala says she would withdraw the troops.

(Reporting by Diego Ore; compiled by Christine Murray; editing by Grant McCool)

BUDAPEST —  A Syrian man who is under U.S. sanctions for assisting the Syrian government received residency status in Hungary under a visa bond program launched by Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government, two Hungarian websites reported.

The investigative portals Direkt36 and 444.hu said on Wednesday in a joint report, citing unnamed sources, that Hungary gave a residency permit to Atiya Khoury, who the United States accused in 2016 of paying for fuel procurements for President Bashar al-Assad's government.

The "golden visa scheme" launched in 2013, which guarantees temporary residency for at least five years to foreigners buying a Hungarian bond for up to 300,000 euros, helped Hungary raise funds at a time when its credit rating languished in "junk" status. Hungary halted the program last year.

Orban's chief of staff Janos Lazar told a regular news conference that national security bodies had screened all those who had bought residency bonds.

"I'm sure that they screened everyone very thoroughly ... I have no doubt about that," he said when asked repeatedly about the report. He did not address specific details in the report.

The websites' allegation that certain Syrians were among those allowed to buy residency comes at a sensitive time for Orban's right-wing government which has been fiercely campaigning against Muslim immigrants ahead of an election on April 8.

The websites said it could also be a worrying lapse of national security, if it were confirmed.

Orban is seeking a third consecutive term and his party has a lead over the opposition in the opinion polls.

The opposition Socialist party urged the government to clarify whether it let "criminals" settle in Hungary, and the opposition Democratic Coalition and LMP parties demanded more clarity on the issue.

The Immigration Office did not reply to Reuters questions regarding the identity of the man who the websites said received his status under the bond program.

The government did not respond to Reuters requests for comment. Hungary's intelligence agency did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment.

Reuters could not independently verify the websites' report, which did not say when the Syrian man was given the visa.

Direkt36 said it received a list of names from an unnamed source which included individuals from several countries, not just Syria, who took part in the visa program. Another source familiar with the administrative process confirmed the man and his relatives received residency permits through the program, Direkt36 said.

It highlighted a second Syrian man who Italian authorities suspect took part in an international money-laundering scheme. Direkt36 said he was detained by police on Nov. 28, 2017, in Hungary. Police did not reply to requests for comment.

The U.S. Treasury Department said on its website at the time when it imposed sanctions that the man the Hungarian websites identified, alternatively spelled as Atiya Khouri by the U.S. Treasury, operated a firm Moneta Transfer & Exchange and moved cash between Syria, Lebanon, and Russia on behalf of another man, and with authority from the government of Syria,

"He paid for fuel procurement for the government of Syria using Moneta Transfer & Exchange and received a commission for these transactions," it added at the time.

It was not possible to contact the man.

(Reporting by Krisztina Than; Editing by Alison Williams)

ROME —  The head of Italy's far-right League said on Monday he was ready to talk to the anti-establishment 5-Star Movement about forming a government after the two sides joined forces to elect parliamentary speakers at the weekend.

Saturday's vote, which saw a 5-Star politician take charge of the lower chamber while a center-right veteran became head of the upper house Senate, raised speculation the two blocs might move on and try to forge a coalition.

Such a prospect looked near impossible a month ago, with the League and its conservative allies deeply opposed to the 5-Star both in terms of policies and personalities.

However, after a March 4 national election ended in a hung parliament, Italy's disparate parties are considering various options to overcome the impasse as President Sergio Mattarella prepares to start formal negotiations next week.

"We need to sit around a table with everyone, and certainly also with 5-Star," League leader Matteo Salvini told Il Messaggero newspaper in an interview.

In an interview with Telelombardia, Salvini said he would put forward 10 priorities for the next government, including reforming the justice system, curbing immigration and dumping a recent pension reform that had pushed back retirement ages.

He made no mention of introducing a flat tax - a campaign pledge that would cost billions of euros to implement and is seen as incompatible with an expensive, flagship 5-Star proposal to instigate a "citizens' wage" to help the poor and jobless.

Luigi Di Maio, leader of the 5-Star, laid out his own policy priorities on Sunday, highlighting the need to undo the recent pension changes and reduce youth unemployment. He made no reference to the citizens' wage.

BETRAYAL

Sending another mollifying signal, Salvini said he was ready to drop his claim to be the next prime minister, even though the League emerged as the largest party within the conservative alliance, which in turn is now the largest bloc in parliament.

"It is not 'Salvini or death'," he told Telelombardia.

The 5-Star and League have enough seats to govern alone - a prospect that has worried financial markets because of their shared hostility to European Union budget restraints and their big campaign spending pledges.

However, Salvini has always pledged not to abandon his rightist allies, including former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi, whose Forza Italia party unexpectedly trailed the League in this month's vote, leaving him to play second fiddle.

Berlusconi last week accused Salvini of betraying him in the vote for the speakers. Although the two subsequently made peace, Forza Italia veterans are afraid the League might ditch them and join the 5-Star in a coalition with a limited, but popular program that would prepare the way for swift, new elections.

A poll last week showed support for Forza Italia crumbling as center-right voters jumped on the League band wagon.

"Berlusconi is tired, angry and worried," said a senior Forza Italia politician, who declined to be named.

In an interview with the daily Corriere della Sera on Monday, the 81-year-old Berlusconi said Salvini needed his allies to govern, adding that a 5-Star/League government would be a "hircocervus" - a half-goat, half-stag mythical creature.

"(It was) often mentioned by ancient philosophers as an example of absurdity because it is made up of opposed and irreconcilable characters," he said.

(Additional reporting by Giselda Vagnoni; Editing by Mark Heinrich)

ROME —  Italy's anti-establishment 5-Star Movement hooked up with conservative parties on Saturday to elect the speakers of both houses of parliament, but there was no sign yet they might extend this pact and form a government.

The March 4 national election ended in a hung parliament, with the 5-Star becoming the largest party and a rightist alliance, including ex-premier Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia party and the anti-migrant League, emerging as the biggest bloc.

After days of behind-the-scenes talks, the two factions joined forces to elect 5-Star heavyweight Roberto Fico president of the lower house and Forza Italia veteran Elisabetta Casellati president of the Senate - both highly prestigious posts.

The conservative alliance came close to collapse on Friday after the League sided with 5-Star to reject Forza Italia's first choice for the Senate position, but hasty overnight negotiations patched up the row, at least for now.

"I am very happy, moved and proud that parliament has started to work and that the centre-right has held together," League leader Matteo Salvini said after Saturday's twin votes.

The election of the speakers opens the way for formal government consultations, which will be led by President Sergio Mattarella and are expected to start early next month.

Later on Saturday Prime Minister Paolo Gentiloni officially handed in his resignation and that of his government to Mattarella, as normally happens in Italy when a newly-elected parliament appoints its speakers.

Gentiloni, however, will remain in place to take care of day-to-day operations until a new government is formed, the secretary of the president said in an emailed statement.

FLEXIBILITY

The 5-Star and the right have enough seats in parliament to govern Italy, but there are many impediments to such a deal in terms of policy mismatches and personality clashes.

"Here we have seen that there are (parliamentary) forces which carry considerable weight. But for us, government is something different," said Giorgia Meloni, head of the far-right Brothers of Italy party which is in the conservative alliance.

"For us, 5-Star absolutely does not represent any sort of guarantee, just like the Democratic Party," she added, referring to the centre-left PD which lost power in the March 4 election.

Nonetheless, Saturday's ballots showed that the 5-Star is evolving. It used to excoriate such parliamentary deal-making as old-style politics, so by agreeing to a deal in both houses it suggested it might prove more flexible in future.

The election of the speakers also represented a blow to Berlusconi, who dominated Italy's centre-right for almost 25 years but must now play second fiddle to Salvini after the League overtook his Forza Italia party in the March 4 vote.

He accused Salvini of betrayal on Friday after the League sided with the 5-Star over the speaker nominations. On Saturday Berlusconi altered his tone, saying he still trusted Salvini and promised to work for the good of Italy, the euro zone's third largest economy.

Post-election opinion polls have shown support for Forza Italia collapse further in favor of the League, which has promised a fierce clampdown on illegal immigration and a hefty reduction in both business and personal taxes.

Backing for the 5-Star has also climbed further over the past three weeks, with the movement promising to introduce a generous "Citizen's Wage" to help the poor and jobless.

Both the League and 5-Star have voiced fierce hostility to EU budget rules and markets are likely to be spooked by any sign they might form a coalition. However, their divergent economic platforms represent a serious hurdle to alliance deals.

(Additional reporting by Francesca Landini; Editing by Mark Heinrich and Andrew Bolton)

NAIROBI —  Columnists from Kenya's top media group resigned en masse on Tuesday accusing it of letting the government interfere with editorial decisions, a charge the publisher denied.

Eight writers of opinion pieces accused management at Nation Media Group (NMG) - which publishes the Daily Nation, Kenya's most widely read paper - of being too close to the ruling party.

"We refuse to continue to clothe the loss of editorial independence and media freedom at the NMG with respectability," the columnists said in a statement on Twitter. The said it appeared the executive was able "to influence who works for or contributes" to the papers.

The paper issued a statement later on Tuesday saying it wanted "to reassure our readers and stakeholders that we continue to be committed to media freedom".

There was no immediate comment from the government.

President Uhuru Kenyatta's government launched a security crackdown after the legitimacy of his re-election in October was challenged by opposition leader Raila Odinga.

In a separate incident throwing the spotlight on media freedoms, police punched and kicked journalists covering the attempted deportation of an opposition politician at Nairobi airport on Monday.

The opposition politician, Miguna Miguna, was detained on Monday when he returned on a flight from abroad, a month after being deported in a dispute over his dual citizenship amid an escalation of political tensions in Kenya.

After his deportation in February, a court ordered Miguna be granted re-entry but on Monday Nairobi immigration officers refused to accept his Kenyan passport and asked him to surrender his Canadian travel document, his lawyer Nelson Havi said.

An hours-long standoff ensued before several dozen plainclothes officers dragged Miguna onto an Emirates airline plane bound for Dubai, opposition Senator James Orengo said. Miguna was then removed from the airliner and taken to an airport police station.

He remained there on Tuesday without access to his lawyer, Orengo said.

On Tuesday afternoon a Kenyan court ordered that Miguna be released immediately and that he present himself in court on Wednesday. His lawyer Havi said on Tuesday evening that he remained in detention at the airport. "We served the attorney general with a copy of the court order. We demand his release."

During the scuffle, journalists from the Daily Nation and two private TV stations were assaulted and left bleeding on the ground, according to video footage and one Nation journalist.

"I watched a police officer kick my colleague in the back, then kick his camera, then with his other leg kick in him in the head," journalist Ibrahim Oruko said.

Interior Ministry spokesman Mwenda Njoka said the government was just following the law in Miguna's case. "We have not denied him (entry). We just need him to follow the process like everybody else."

Kenyatta and Odinga struck an unexpected truce earlier this month after months of elections-related unrest in which 100 people died.

It was unclear whether the dispute over Miguna would affect the reconciliation pact.

Odinga came to the airport to lobby for Miguna to be let back into Kenya, Orengo said.

(Reporting by Maggie Fick and Humphrey Malalo; Additional reporting by Omar Mohammed; Writing by Maggie Fick; Editing by Mark Heinrich and Andrew Heavens)

Update: Several states said they would sue the Trump administration over its decision to include a citizenship question in the 2020 census, including New York and California. Read the latest, here. 

WASHINGTON — The 2020 census will ask respondents whether they are United States citizens, the Commerce Department announced Monday night, agreeing to a Trump administration request with highly charged political and social implications that many officials feared would result in a substantial undercount.

In a statement released Monday, the Commerce Department, which oversees the Census Bureau, said Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross had “determined that reinstatement of a citizenship question on the 2020 decennial census questionnaire is necessary to provide complete and accurate census block level data,” allowing the department to accurately measure the portion of the population eligible to vote.

But his decision immediately invited a legal challenge: Xavier Becerra, California’s attorney general, plans to sue the Trump administration over the decision, a spokeswoman for Mr. Becerra said late Monday.

Critics of the change and experts in the Census Bureau itself have said that, amid a fiery immigration debate, the inclusion of a citizenship question could prompt immigrants who are in the country illegally not to respond. That would result in a severe undercount of the population — and, in turn, faulty data for government agencies and outside groups that rely on the census. The effects would also bleed into the redistricting of the House and state legislatures in the next decade.

The Justice Department had requested the change in December, arguing that asking participants about their citizenship status in the decennial census would help enforce Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act, which aims to prevent voting rights violations.

“The Justice Department is committed to free and fair elections for all Americans, and has sought reinstatement of the citizenship question on the census to fulfill that commitment,” a Justice Department spokesman, Devin M. O’Malley, told The New York Times in February.

In a memorandum explaining his decision, Mr. Ross wrote that he had considered opponents’ arguments about the potential to discourage responses.

“I find that the need for accurate citizenship data and the limited burden that the reinstatement of the citizenship question would impose outweigh fears about a potentially lower response rate,” he wrote.

The decennial census generally included a citizenship inquiry for more than 100 years through 1950, according to the Commerce Department. And other, smaller population surveys, such as the Current Population Survey and the American Community Survey, continue to ask respondents about it.

But critics dismissed administration officials’ reassurances.

“The census numbers provide the backbone for planning how our communities can grow and thrive in the coming decade,” said Mr. Becerra. “What the Trump administration is requesting is not just alarming, it is an unconstitutional attempt to discourage an accurate census count.”

Others argued that an undercount in regions with high immigrant populations would lead not only to unreliable data but also to unfair redistricting, to the benefit of Republicans.

“Adding this question will result in a bad census — deeply flawed population data that will skew public and private sector decisions to ensure equal representation, allocate government resources and anticipate economic growth opportunities — for the next 10 years,” Vanita Gupta, the chief executive of the Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights and a deputy attorney general in the Obama administration, said in a statement Monday night. “The stakes are too high to allow this. We urge Congress to overturn this error in judgment.”

The announcement of the citizenship question comes at a troublesome time for the Census Bureau: Its top two positions have interim occupants, and it has been forced to skip two of its three trial runs for the 2020 census because of funding shortfalls. If response rates for the census are low, critics worry that the bureau may be unable to adjust the data or deploy enough census takers to low-response communities.

The bureau is required to submit a final list of the 2020 census questions to Congress by the end of March.

VARNA, Bulgaria —  The European Union holds an uneasy summit with Turkey on Monday, when it is likely to provide Ankara with fresh cash to extend a deal on Syrian refugees but deflect Turkish demands for deeper trade ties and visa-free travel to Europe.

With the bloc critical of what it considers to be Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan's growing authoritarianism at home and his intervention in Syria's war, Brussels had hesitated to agree to the summit.

But host Bulgaria viewed the meeting at the Black Sea port of Varna as a rare chance for dialogue with the country that remains a candidate for EU membership despite years of stalled talks.

EU leaders also cited Turkey's importance as a NATO ally on Europe's southern flank and in curbing immigration to Europe from the Middle East and Africa.

"I am looking with mixed feelings towards the Varna summit because the differences in views between the EU and Turkey are many," said European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker, who will represent the bloc along with European Council President Donald Tusk.

"It will be a frank and open debate, where we will not hide our differences but will seek to improve our cooperation," Juncker told reporters on Friday after a two-day EU summit that discussed Turkey.

At that meeting in Brussels, leaders condemned what they said were Turkey's illegal actions in a standoff over eastern Mediterranean gas reserves with bloc members Greece and Cyprus.

But in a familiar pattern of public recrimination, Turkey's minister for EU affairs, Omer Celik, said Ankara viewed the summit as "an important opportunity to move our relations forward" and that he expected "the same positive and constructive approach from the EU".

Erdogan will seek more money for Syrian refugees, a deeper customs union and progress in talks on letting Turks visit Europe without visas, a Turkish foreign ministry spokesman said.

'LAST CHANCE'

EU money is likely to be forthcoming, but little else, EU officials and diplomats said.

The bloc is set to grant Turkey a second 3 billion euro ($3.7 billion) tranche to provide for the Syrians it hosts under a March 2016 deal to take in migrants fleeing the country's war.

However, EU diplomats said that Erdogan's invitation to Varna will come at the price of more sharp criticism from EU counterparts who say that Turkey has been backsliding on democracy and human rights since a failed coup in July 2016.

Some 50,000 people, including journalists, have been arrested while a further 150,000, including teachers, judges and soldiers, have been sacked or suspended from their jobs since the attempted coup.

"The meeting in Varna is likely to be one of the last opportunities to maintain dialogue," said Bulgarian Prime Minister Boyko Borissov, whose nation holds the EU's rotating presidency.

Despite the need for Turkey's cooperation on security and foreign policy, the EU should maintain a tough line, said Marc Pierini, a former EU ambassador to Turkey, now at the Carnegie Europe think-tank.

"It's quite tempting for EU politicians to go for a transactional relationship with Turkey, but Erdogan is not going to stop EU-bashing for his nationalist agenda," he Pierini.

(Additional reporting by Robin Emmott; Writing by Alissa de Carbonnel @AdeCar; Editing by David Goodman)

BRUSSELS/LONDON —  As Britain's Brexit negotiations with the European Union moved into a new phase on Friday, the process has generated a new language all of its own, some of it colorful, much of it mystifying to the uninitiated.

So here, with some updated entries, is a non-exhaustive Reuters lexicon of Brexit. Or as some might have it, a Brexicon:

--- BREXIT 1.01 ---

BREXIT - A portmanteau of "British" and "exit" from the EU. Inspired by "Grexit", coined in 2012 as debt-laden Greece seemed about to crash out of the euro zone, the term Brexit took off after Prime Minister David Cameron pledged a referendum in 2013.

HARD BREXIT - Cutting as many ties as possible with the EU. Implied exit from close links to the EU single market and customs union. Much stronger immigration controls for all non-UK citizens. Favored description used by opponents of Brexit to imply a severe divorce with potentially catastrophic consequences.

WTO TERMS - Term preferred by Brexit supporters, this fallback position if there is NO DEAL with Brussels would let Britain export to the EU under rules set by the World Trade Organization, which limit the level of tariffs on goods.

SOFT BREXIT - A Brexit that preserves as many of the attributes of membership as possible, including some sort of preferential access to the single market and customs union. Often favored by supporters of Brexit to describe the views of their opponents, whom they cast as foolish. Other variants include MODEST BREXIT or THE CLOSEST POSSIBLE TIES.

BREMOANER, or REMOANER, or even on occasion REMAINIAC - Derogatory terms for Brexit critics, REMAINERS, who moan about the result. Self-styled BREXITEERS -- it echoes buccaneering "privateers" who helped found Britain's maritime empire -- cast them as whinging, unpatriotic, urban liberals.

See also:

REGREXIT - Second thoughts attributed to some Brexit voters by Remainers. There is little evidence of major shift in public opinion that might justify calls for a SECOND REFERENDUM.

    

    BREXTREMIST - A supporter of Brexit who wants to leave the EU and all of its works regardless of the consequences.

See also:

THE SELL-OUT TRAITOR MOB and THE SWIVEL-EYED FEW - Colourful insults used by a Remainer minister of Brexiteers who called colleagues TRAITORS for agreeing to pay Brussels a FINANCIAL SETTLEMENT.

Also:

ENEMIES OF THE PEOPLE - Another token of mutual loathing, a Daily Mail headline describing UK judges who ruled that British Prime Minister Theresa May must get parliamentary approval to trigger the formal Brexit process.

WITHDRAWAL TREATY - What Britain and the EU are negotiating under ARTICLE 50 of the EU's Lisbon treaty, to settle legal loose ends and avoid a CLIFF-EDGE messy exit on March 29, 2019. May has insisted, however: NO DEAL IS BETTER THAN A BAD DEAL.

CITIZENS' RIGHTS - An interim deal has given lifetime residency rights to some 4.5 million expatriates on either side. SUFFICIENT PROGRESS on that, as well as the FINANCIAL SETTLEMENT and IRISH BORDER, opened the way to SECOND PHASE, TRADE TALKS.

GOVERNANCE ISSUES - Still a bone of contention is an EU demand that the European Court of Justice (ECJ) be ultimate guarantor of the withdrawal treaty and citizens' future rights.

    TRANSITION PERIOD - Twenty-one months after Brexit, open to extension, intended to cushion shocks all round. May and British officials call this an IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD. British officials have argued that an implementation period is different from a transition period but have struggled to explain how.

--- RELATIONSHIP POLITICS ---

    VASSAL STATE - The idea that Britain will be a vassal of the EU during the transition period because it will have to abide by all of Brussels' rules while losing any say on them. Wielded by May's Brexiteer critics, EU negotiator Michel Barnier gives it a Gallic shrug: Britain "must ACCEPT THE RULES OF THE GAME".

See also: BRINO, or BINO - Brexit In Name Only

FUTURE RELATIONSHIP - Talks from April on how cross-Channel relations will look from 2021 will aim to produce a POLITICAL DECLARATION on future trade and cooperation by late this year. This would translate into a FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (FTA) by 2021.

--- WHO YOU GONNA BE? ---

NORWAY MINUS - Norway's ties to the EU look a lot like the UK in the transition, membership in all but name, without a vote. May rejects membership of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA (EEA) as it means staying in the single market, with all its rules.

SWISS MODEL - Switzerland is not in the EEA but is in the single market for goods. Brussels is fed up with complexity and wrangles with the Swiss and won't offer such a deal to London.

REVERSE GREENLAND - A short-lived idea for Scotland to stay in the EU by breaking with England and keeping the United Kingdom's seat in Brussels; inspired by how Greenland quit the bloc in 1985 while the rest of the Danish kingdom stayed in.

CANADA PLUS - The EU's baseline assumption for the future relationship. An FTA even more extensive than the EU has with Canada, its closest trading partner to date. Noting Britain's much bigger trade and clout with the EU, Brexit Secretary David Davis reckons he can negotiate CANADA PLUS PLUS PLUS.

BESPOKE ARRANGEMENT - May's goal, to reflect mutual interest in maintaining close ties. It all depends what you mean by "bespoke". Like a Savile Row suit, EU leaders say, any FTA will be tailored to British trade patterns. But it will still be a model that looks from afar much like the one that fits Canada.

See also: May's plan for a RED, WHITE AND BLUE BREXIT

--- CUTTING THE CAKE ---

FOUR FREEDOMS - The single market demands free movement for goods, services, capital and labor. The Brexit campaign against immigration, as well as against the SOVEREIGNTY of EU law and judges, means May will not accept single market rules. And the EU insist the four freedoms are INDIVISIBLE. See CHERRY-PICKING.

CHERRY-PICKING - The favorite bugbear of EU leaders who say special deals for Britain could unpick their single market and inspire others to quit the bloc. They refused to let London put controls on EU immigration and dislike suggestions that some British industries might be allowed to stay in the single market.

"No cherry-picking" is heard most often from Germany, where Chancellor Angela Merkel used it days after the Brexit vote. In the German, ROSINENPICKEREI or raisin-picking, more clearly refers to the denuding of cakes -- and so to Brexiteer Boris Johnson's demand that Britain should HAVE ITS CAKE AND EAT IT.

REGULATORY ALIGNMENT - Britain argues that it already has all the EU's rules and so should have market access. The EU worries about FUTURE DIVERGENCE but accepts a promise this won't happen in Northern Ireland to ensure there is no HARD BORDER with EU member the Irish Republic, which could disrupt peace.

BACKSLIDING - Joins CHERRY-PICKING as an EU concern about British behavior, especially as in "no backsliding" on a vow to keep Northern Ireland in regulatory alignment with the EU.

BACKSTOP - The British promise to put that Irish deal into the withdrawal treaty "unless and until" a better solution is found that would not risk isolating the Northern Ireland economy from a British mainland which diverges from EU regulations.

EQUIVALENCE - Banks losing PASSPORTING RIGHTS across the EU say EU recognition that UK rules are EQUIVALENT may help their access. Some in the EU are sympathetic and want IMPROVED EQUIVALENCE -- though what that means, no one can say for sure.

--- NUMBER CRUNCHING ---

ARTICLE 49 - Britons are divorcing their neighbors under ARTICLE 50. But as some EU leaders have reminded them, they will always have ARTICLE 49 -- it sets out how to join the EU again.

THE 27 - The EU's 27 other members. Talks with Britain are led by Frenchman Michel Barnier and TASK FORCE 50, or TF-50 (as in ARTICLE 50), of the European Commission. They coordinate with 27 national envoys in COREPER-50 who prepare the GAC-50, or GENERAL AFFAIRS COUNCIL of ministers, whose work is reviewed by 27 SHERPAS for summit meetings of the EUROPEAN COUNCIL AT 27.

See also:

DExEU - The Department for Exiting the European Union, whose minister David Davis is Barnier's opposite number. In Brussels, it works via Britain's EU embassy, or Permanent Representation, which goes by the similarly unmelodious acronym UKREP.

--- WHAT THEY SAID ---

"BREXIT MEANS BREXIT" - May's famous early line after taking over from Cameron after the referendum. Many in Brussels grumble that she has yet to spell out what she wants in the long run.

    "STRONG AND STABLE" - The slogan used so mechanically by May during a snap June election that critics nicknamed her MAYBOT. She lost her majority. Phrase now used exclusively with irony.

"NOTHING IS AGREED TILL EVERYTHING IS AGREED" - A warning to anyone reading too much into interim deals. They will only be legally binding in a final text ratified by both parliaments.

"TAKE BACK CONTROL" - A pro-Brexit slogan, more heard now in Brussels with heavy irony when London agrees to follow EU rules.

"SALT AND VINEGAR" - A touchstone moment highlighting how Britons and continentals so often mystify one another. Donald Tusk, the chair of EU leaders, responded to Boris Johnson on cake by saying there would be NO CAKE for anyone ONLY SALT AND VINEGAR. To a Polish Catholic, the reference to Jesus's torment on the cross was obvious. But to Britons it conjured up a much more positive image: the tasty dressing on their fish and chips.

(Additional reporting by Reuters London and Brussels bureaux; editing by Mark John)

Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Amid unrest in Sacramento over the death of Stephon Clark, 22, who was fatally shot by officers responding to a vandalism call, the city’s mayor, Darrell Steinberg, has been both criticized and praised for his response to the grief felt by his black constituents.

Questions about excessive force hover over the case. Officers fired 20 times at Mr. Clark, and although the shooting was recorded from a police helicopter and officers’ body cameras, the officers muted their body cameras after they opened fire.

In an interview, Mr. Steinberg said he was committed to hearing the community’s concerns, even as tensions persist in Sacramento. Mr. Steinberg’s comments have been edited and condensed.

Q. What do you think is your role in managing the tensions resulting from this issue?

A. I’m trying to be both a voice of calm and a voice that insists on change. I’ve said very clearly, and it’s a fine distinction, but maybe the most important distinction: While we cannot prejudge the outcome of the investigation, because that wouldn’t be fair to anybody, we must immediately begin questioning the protocol, the training and the policies that arise from watching the video. Regardless of the outcome of the investigation, which will be based on the current laws and the current policies and the current training, what happened here, the outcome, was plain wrong. A 22-year-old man should not have died in this way.

Q. What comes next?

A. The question now is what are we going to do with this moment in time. We are either going to divide in despair, or we’re going to heal and hail justice and change. The question that I continue to ask around watching the video and more importantly about the more systemic issues — isn’t there a better way?

Q: What did you take away from the last few days?

A: Of course the Clark shooting is the immediate cause and source of real and deep trauma but it’s about so much more than that. It’s about people’s lives. It’s about how communities of color feel about their lives here. Here’s what I know: There is a big disconnect between our renaissance in Sacramento, which is very real, and people struggling in our neighborhoods and in our communities. People who are having a hard time paying the rent, whose kids are having a hard time in school, whose lives are tough every single day.

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)

• The tense moments of the Stephon Clark protests. [Video: The New York Times]

• Protests over Mr. Clark’s death have spread across the country: San Diego; Portland, Ore.; and Watertown, Mass., have all had protests, and other cities are planning more. [Sacramento Bee]

• In Vallejo, the family of a man fatally shot by a police officer last month filed a federal lawsuit against the city. A lawyer for the family says the Vallejo police have ignored requests to review body-camera footage of the shooting. [KQED]

• Lt. Gov. Gavin Newsom is ahead in the polls for the governorship. His campaign says he’ll skip participating in debates until May. “When your candidate has a good-sized lead in the polls, you take as few risks as possible,” one analyst says, but Mr. Newsom’s opponents are making their displeasure known. [Los Angeles Times]

• Southern California’s biggest water agency is considering picking up most of the bill for overhauling the state’s waterworks through the construction of the giant water tunnels under the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. That means ratepayers from Los Angeles to San Diego might be stuck with a roughly $11 billion bill for the project. [Los Angeles Times]

• U.S. Border Patrol agents have been boarding Greyhound buses and questioning passengers in their attempts to crack down on illegal immigration. The American Civil Liberties Union has asked that the company deny immigration agents entrance to its buses unless they have a warrant for a specific passenger. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• Fossil-fuel power plants have had increasing difficulty selling their power to California, partly because of the state’s mandate that 50 percent of power be generated from renewable sources by 2030. Some utility companies in the West have scrapped plans for new natural-gas plants in favor of wind and solar sources. [The New York Times]

• James Lilja was the drummer in the punk band the Offspring. Then he quit to become an obstetrician gynecologist. Now he is being sued for malpractice. One of the prospective jurors at his trial this week collapsed, hit his head and was unresponsive. Dr. Lilja and his assistant administered CPR and shocked the man with an automated external defibrillator. When paramedics arrived, the man remained unconscious but had a pulse. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• Oakland is losing the Raiders and the Golden State Warriors. On Wednesday, Mayor Libby Schaaf said she would ask local leaders to approve an agreement to give the A’s exclusive rights to negotiate stadium deals at the Coliseum. [East Bay Times]

The police in Mendocino County are trying to unravel the mystery of a family from Washington State found dead at the bottom of a cliff off a remote stretch of Highway 1. The bodies of the parents, Jennifer and Sarah Hart, were found on Monday inside the family’s vehicle, which was upside down on the rocky shore, according to a summary of the case by the Mendocino County Sheriff’s office. The bodies of three of their adopted children were found nearby but another three children were still missing late Wednesday.

“An entire family vanished,” Tom Allman, the Mendocino County Sheriff, told reporters in a briefing on Wednesday.

[Our article on the car crash can be found here.]

One of the missing children, Devonte Hart, was the subject of a viral photograph in 2014 that captured him hugging a Portland, Ore., police officer during the nationwide protests over the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson, Mo.

The sheriff said there were no skid marks or indications that the car had tried to stop before falling 100 feet to the edge of the ocean. But he also said the police had found no evidence that it was an “intentional act.”

The Santa Rosa Press Democrat reported Wednesday that the Washington State Department of Social Services had opened an investigation into the family last Friday based on reports of potential abuse or neglect.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

WASHINGTON —  The $1.3 trillion spending bill Congress approved early Friday was shaped by battles over major issues like immigration, health care and defense. But one of the last disputes involved a Republican Idaho senator's effort to prevent a wilderness area from being renamed for his state's deceased Democratic governor.

In the end, Sen. James Risch lost. But the fight contributed to delays that left senators waiting until after midnight to approve the massive spending package, to the chagrin of some.

"It's most like a 'Saturday Night Live' skit," said Sen. Clare McCaskill, D-Mo.

"That kind of fight is silly, but it comes from a ridiculously dysfunctional process," said Sen. Ben Sasse, R-Neb.

Risch did win sympathy from Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, who's also not been shy about slowing legislation to try getting his way. Most famously, he forced a lengthy 2013 government shutdown in an unsuccessful effort to dismantle President Barack Obama's health care law.

"Every member has the prerogative to fight for issues they care about," Cruz told a reporter.

Buried on page 786 of the 2,232-page spending bill was a provision adding Cecil Andrus' name to the White Clouds Wilderness, which is in Idaho's Sawtooth and Challis National Forests. Andrus was a four-term Idaho governor who died last year.

According to lawmakers and aides from both parties, Risch was insisting on blocking the renaming. The battle played out behind the scenes, with no debate on the Senate floor but GOP leaders holding private conversations with Risch to try working something out.

Risch would not comment on the episode to reporters afterward, striding past them and brusquely saying, "I don't have any comment."

But an article from November 2008 about Risch's election to the Senate in the Spokesman-Review, a newspaper in nearby Spokane, Washington, may provide a clue.

The article said that Risch battled with then-Gov. Andrus in the 1980s over education. Risch told a reporter he'd worked well with Andrus, who subsequently rebutted that.

"Worked against me is more like it," the former governor said. "Risch is one of the most partisan people I've ever had to deal with. During his time in legislative leadership, cooperation across the aisle and with the governor's office reached a new low."

As the hours ticked by Thursday and senators impatiently waited to finish the spending bill, the Senate bowed to Risch and approved language preventing the renaming of the area after Andrus.

But the change also required approval by the House, which had already left Washington for a recess. No. 2 Senate GOP leader John Cornyn of Texas told reporters that there'd been an objection in the House to Risch's effort, effectively scuttling it.

Risch wasn't the only unhappy lawmaker. Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., objected to the bill's massive spending and the scant time lawmakers had to review it, while Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., complained that senators shouldn't have to wait until midnight to vote.

"My principle responsibility is begging, pleading and cajoling," Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said before the final vote. "And I've been in continuous discussions, shall we say, with several of our members, who were legitimately unhappy with one aspect or another."

___

Congressional Correspondent Lisa Mascaro contributed to this report.

___

This story has been corrected to fix McConnell's title in the final paragraph.

WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census set off worries among Democrats on Tuesday that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic and robbing many communities of federal dollars.

Not since 1950 has the census collected citizenship data from the whole population, rather than just a population sample, says the Congressional Research Service. The decision to restore the question after decades prompted an immediate lawsuit from California — already tangling with Washington over immigration — and moves by other states with large immigrant populations to engage in a legal fight.

The population count, a massive effort taken every 10 years, is far more than an academic exercise. It's required by the Constitution and used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House as well as how federal money is distributed to local communities. Communities and businesses depend on it in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, grocery stores and more.

The political stakes of undercounting segments of the population are high.

Several states that have slowing population growth or high numbers of immigrants such as California, New York, Illinois, Massachusetts and Ohio are typically at risk of losing U.S. House seats when their congressional districts are redrawn every 10 years — depending on how fully their residents are counted.

California struck quickly, with Attorney General Xavier Becerra filing a federal lawsuit Tuesday that seeks to block Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross' decision to add a citizenship question in 2020. Officials from New York and New Jersey, also Democratic-led states, were also planning on leading or participating in lawsuits. Massachusetts signaled interest, too.

"The census constitutes the backbone for planning how and where our communities will invest taxpayer dollars," Becerra said. "California simply has too much to lose to allow the Trump Administration to botch this important decennial obligation.

The Justice Department said in a statement it "looks forward to defending the reinstatement of the citizenship question, which will allow the department to protect the right to vote and ensure free and fair elections for all Americans." The Commerce Department said the benefits of obtaining citizenship information "outweighed the limited potential adverse impacts."

Their argument in essence: Enforcing voting rights requires more data on the voting-age population of citizens than current surveys are providing.

Democratic lawmakers had been bracing for the decision. A bill sponsored by Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. would block the addition of a citizenship question, or any major design change, unless it has undergone a certain level of research and testing, but it faces dim prospects with no Republicans signing on.

House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday that adding such a question "will inject fear and distrust into vulnerable communities and cause traditionally undercounted communities to be even further under-represented, financially excluded and left behind."

Some Republican lawmakers hailed the decision on Tuesday.  GOP Sens. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ted Cruz of Texas had sent a letter to the Commerce Department asking Ross to add the question.

"It is imperative that the data gathered in the census is reliable, given the wide ranging impacts it will have on U.S. policy," Cruz said in a press release issued by the three lawmakers. "A question on citizenship is a reasonable, commonsense addition to the census."

The Census Bureau separately conducts an ongoing survey called the American Community Survey that provides citizenship data on a yearly basis. But it only samples a small portion of the population.

Before that, citizenship or related questions were asked of about 1 in 6 households on the census "long form," which has since been retired. The Congressional Research Service said it has been 1950 since all households were asked about citizenship.

Alabama Attorney General Steven Marshall said the American Community Survey is so small, with a correspondingly large margin of error, that it is an ineffective tool for understanding lightly populated rural areas of the country.

"It just makes sense that government has a more accurate record for the census and reinstates the practice of including a citizenship question in the next census," Marshall said.

A joint fundraising committee for Trump's re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee highlighted the addition of a citizenship question in a fundraising pitch last week. The pitch said Trump wants the 2020 Census to ask people whether or not they are citizens, and that in another era, this would be common sense.

"The President wants to know if you're on his side," the solicitation asks.

Census counts are taken by mail and by workers walking neighborhoods. The Census Bureau says the 2010 census drew a massive response, with about 74 percent of the households mailing in forms and remaining households counted by workers in neighborhoods.

Information is only released publicly in the aggregate, although the government has the details. In 2010, the Obama administration offered assurances that the census data would not be used for immigration enforcement.

The Census Bureau states on its website that personal information obtained through its surveys cannot be used against respondents by any government agency or court. And the disclosure by an employee of any information that would personally identify a respondent or family can lead to up to five years in prison or a fine of $250,000, or both.

Critics of the decision seemed far more focused Tuesday on the potential for intimidation and an inaccurate count than the prospect that the information could be used to target participants for deportation.

"I can only see one purpose for why this question is being added," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, an organization that seeks to advance Latino political engagement. It's to "scare Latinos and others from participating in the 2020 Census."

___

Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers contributed to this report from Los Angeles.

WASHINGTON —  The Trump administration's decision to ask people about their citizenship in the 2020 census set off worries among Democrats that immigrants will dodge the survey altogether, diluting political representation for states that tend to vote Democratic and robbing many communities of federal dollars.

Not since 1950 has the census collected citizenship data from the whole population, rather than just a population sample, says the Congressional Research Service. The decision to restore the question after decades prompted an immediate lawsuit from California — already tangling with Washington over immigration — and moves by other states with large immigrant populations to engage in a legal fight.

The population count, a massive effort taken every 10 years, is far more than an academic exercise. It's required by the Constitution and used to determine the number of seats each state has in the House as well as how federal money is distributed to local communities. Communities and businesses depend on it in deciding where to build schools, hospitals, grocery stores and more.

The political stakes of undercounting segments of the population are high.

Several states that have slowing population growth or high numbers of immigrants such as California, New York, Illinois, Massachusetts and Ohio are typically at risk of losing U.S. House seats when their congressional districts are redrawn every 10 years — depending on how fully their residents are counted.

California struck quickly, with Attorney General Xavier Becerra filing a federal lawsuit Tuesday that seeks to block Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross' decision to add a citizenship question in 2020. Officials from New York and New Jersey, also Democratic-led states, were also planning on leading or participating in lawsuits. Massachusetts signaled interest, too.

"The census constitutes the backbone for planning how and where our communities will invest taxpayer dollars," Becerra said. "California simply has too much to lose to allow the Trump Administration to botch this important decennial obligation.

The Justice Department said in a statement it "looks forward to defending the reinstatement of the citizenship question, which will allow the department to protect the right to vote and ensure free and fair elections for all Americans." The Commerce Department said the benefits of obtaining citizenship information "outweighed the limited potential adverse impacts."

Their argument in essence: Enforcing voting rights requires more data on the voting-age population of citizens than current surveys are providing.

Democratic lawmakers had been bracing for the decision. A bill sponsored by Rep. Carolyn Maloney, D-N.Y. would block the addition of a citizenship question, or any major design change, unless it has undergone a certain level of research and testing, but it faces dim prospects with no Republicans signing on.

House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi said Tuesday that adding such a question "will inject fear and distrust into vulnerable communities and cause traditionally undercounted communities to be even further under-represented, financially excluded and left behind."

Some Republican lawmakers hailed the decision on Tuesday.  GOP Sens. Jim Inhofe of Oklahoma, Tom Cotton of Arkansas and Ted Cruz of Texas had sent a letter to the Commerce Department asking Ross to add the question.

"It is imperative that the data gathered in the census is reliable, given the wide ranging impacts it will have on U.S. policy," Cruz said in a press release issued by the three lawmakers. "A question on citizenship is a reasonable, commonsense addition to the census."

The Census Bureau separately conducts an ongoing survey called the American Community Survey that provides citizenship data on a yearly basis. But it only samples a small portion of the population.

Before that, citizenship or related questions were asked of about 1 in 6 households on the census "long form," which has since been retired. The Congressional Research Service said it has been 1950 since all households were asked about citizenship.

Alabama Attorney General Steven Marshall said the American Community Survey is so small, with a correspondingly large margin of error, that it is an ineffective tool for understanding lightly populated rural areas of the country.

"It just makes sense that government has a more accurate record for the census and reinstates the practice of including a citizenship question in the next census," Marshall said.

A joint fundraising committee for Trump's re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee highlighted the addition of a citizenship question in a fundraising pitch last week. The pitch said Trump wants the 2020 Census to ask people whether or not they are citizens, and that in another era, this would be common sense.

"The President wants to know if you're on his side," the solicitation asks.

Census counts are taken by mail and by workers walking neighborhoods. The Census Bureau says the 2010 census drew a massive response, with about 74 percent of the households mailing in forms and remaining households counted by workers in neighborhoods.

Information is only released publicly in the aggregate, although the government has the details. In 2010, the Obama administration offered assurances that the census data would not be used for immigration enforcement.

The Census Bureau states on its website that personal information obtained through its surveys cannot be used against respondents by any government agency or court. And the disclosure by an employee of any information that would personally identify a respondent or family can lead to up to five years in prison or a fine of $250,000, or both.

Critics of the decision seemed far more focused Tuesday on the potential for intimidation and an inaccurate count than the prospect that the information could be used to target participants for deportation.

"I can only see one purpose for why this question is being added," said Arturo Vargas, executive director of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials Educational Fund, an organization that seeks to advance Latino political engagement. It's to "scare Latinos and others from participating in the 2020 Census."

___

Associated Press writer Amanda Lee Myers contributed to this report from Los Angeles.

COLUMBUS, Ohio —  In apartment complexes on opposite sides of town, the women — one a former shopkeeper from Somalia, the other a teacher from Bhutan — waited for children to come home.

Only the teacher, Devi Gurung, was rewarded for her patience.

Outside an apartment decorated with Buddhist prayer flags, she watched as a school bus pulled up and the niece she had not seen in four years, hopped to the curb.

"I am lucky," said Gurung, reunited with her sister's family days earlier after spending more than half her life in a refugee camp.

The next morning, Amina Olow unfolded a year-old letter offering hope that daughters she has not seen in a decade would join her soon. She's heard nothing since.

"My kids, they're a part of my body," Olow said, her voice breaking.

Olow and Gurung are here, within 20 minutes of Ohio State University's football horseshoe, because the U.S. granted them safe haven. But that's where their stories diverge.

Starting early last year, President Donald Trump banned arrivals from several, mostly Muslim countries, cut the cap on refugee admissions and suspended a program to reunite families split in the resettlement pipeline.

The restrictions are keeping many families apart, while allowing some to reunite, sorting people by country, and effectively by religion.

Somali refugee Fadumo Hussein protested those policies last January, weeks after her parents were approved to enter the U.S. More than a year later, they remain stuck in Uganda, their case on hold.

Watching Bhutanese neighbors welcome their own family members in the months since, Hussein's been "happy for them because they were able to reunite," but also confused.

"What is different about us, like Somalis or the other countries that are being banned," her daughter, Afnan Salem, asked, "when we are all coming for the same reasons?"

___

In the mid-1800s, German immigrants flocked to red-brick blocks just south of Columbus' downtown. But in recent years, Columbus has become a magnet for refugees, drawn by affordable rents, jobs in distribution centers — and family already here.

Apartments on Columbus' north side have become the center of the largest U.S. population of Bhutanese refugees, most Buddhist or Hindu, expelled during an ethnic cleansing campaign against ethnic Nepalis in the early 1990s. They live alongside the country's second largest Somali community, most Muslim, and refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo, most of them Christian.

"Everybody has a dream that if I go, there will be a chance for my son to come or my mother to come," said Jhuma Acharya, a refugee from Bhutan now working for Community Refugee & Immigration Services, one of Columbus' two resettlement agencies.

But Trump's policies have shaken those expectations.

"There's certainly a pretty dramatic shift" in the mix and number of arrivals, said Kathleen Newland, of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington, D.C., think tank.

The U.S. is on track to take 21,000 refugees this year, the fewest since a 1980 law established the modern resettlement system, and a quarter those admitted in the final year of Barack Obama's presidency. About 15 percent are Muslim, down from 47 percent a year ago.

"The United States is committed to assisting people of all religions, ethnicities, and nationalities," a State Department spokeswoman said in a written response to questions.

Trump's policies have left Bhutan and Congo as the largest contributors to the dwindling pool, accounting for 45 percent of arrivals since October and making Columbus an anomaly.

Meanwhile, the U.S. has accepted few from countries like Syria.

In mid-2016, Alizabet Yandem and four of her children joined husband, Rifat Moustafa, a lawyer who said he fled Syria after he was jailed and beaten for criticizing the Assad regime.

Their son, Hasib, remained in the Middle East after officials held up his petition. Moustafa suspected an objection to his son's malformed left arm, which need surgery. But he expected approval within months. Then, the case stalled.

Officially, Trump's policies do not apply to Moustafa, granted political asylum in the U.S. But resettlement workers said stepped up vetting appears to have caused widespread delays.

One recent afternoon, Moustafa rushed out the door in sandals during a chat with the 16-year-old via Facebook.

"I don't want him to see that I am crying," he said. "I don't want to lose my child."

___

For those already here, the changes are playing out in unnerving and uneven ways.

A few minutes before midnight, Esta Ausa peered down the concourse of the Columbus airport, ignoring friends' teasing to relax. It had been 18 months since Ausa, 22, left her parents, brothers and sisters behind in a refugee camp in Tanzania.

The family is among 675,000 the UN estimates have fled Congo to escape civil war and renewed ethnic violence. After the U.S. put a hold on new refugees last year, Ausa said her parents' approval to enter the U.S. was canceled twice.

When Ausa spotted a cluster of red and yellow winter jackets in the nearly empty terminal, she danced toward the security perimeter — and wrapped her mother in her arms.

"I thank God for everything," her father, Ausa Emedi, said.

Hours later, Olow recounted last seeing her daughters. She was running a food shop in South Africa in 2008. When rioters attacked foreigners and looted the business, she took the girls to live with an aunt, before she was admitted to the U.S. in 2014.

Olow, now an interpreter in an apartment leasing office, unfolded the letter from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, approving her older daughter's petition.

"The president should have empathy for families that have been dislocated, just like mine," she said. "We need one another."

As Olow walked back through the desks, co-worker Janet Siford noticed her tears.

"Amina, I'm sorry ...," Siford said. "One day at a time, OK?"

She cradled the refugee's scarfed head on her shoulder.

"We're like sisters," Siford said. "We hug. We laugh. We cry."

___

Multimedia journalist Martha Irvine contributed to this report.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. 

The gun-control movement goes global, a Trump accuser opens up, and Catalonia seethes. Here’s the latest:

• “Welcome to the revolution.”

That was a survivor of the recent Florida school massacre addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent” at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington on Saturday.

Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches in support of gun control, including in Paris, above, Berlin, London, Mumbai and Tokyo.

Many Americans can buy a gun in less than an hour. Here are the basic steps for how most people buy a gun in 15 countries across the globe. Meanwhile, Remington, one of the oldest U.S. gun makers, has filed for bankruptcy.

_____

• “France will never forget his heroism, his bravery, his sacrifice.”

France mourned a police officer, Lt. Col. Arnaud Beltrame, who died of his injuries after swapping places with a hostage held in a supermarket by a gunman claiming allegiance to the Islamic State.

But not everyone was upset. A former French left-wing parliamentary candidate was arrested for celebrating the officer’s death on Twitter and saying it meant one less voter for President Emmanuel Macron.

_____

• President Trump returned from his Florida resort to a White House he left in turmoil last week. (Catch up with his head-spinning decisions on security, trade and the domestic budget here.) His own aides are nervous about what comes next.

His new, hard-line choices for key posts — including John Bolton as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — have raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet U.S. demands.

And yet personal scandals continue to loom. Two women have now detailed sexual affairs with Mr. Trump during his current marriage. In an interview broadcast hours ago, the pornographic film actress Stormy Daniels, above, said that she had been threatened into silence, but that “being made out to be a liar” had persuaded her to speak. (Here’s our profile of her.)

_____

• Germany has been dragged into Spain’s festering territorial dispute. Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia, was detained there on an international arrest warrant after crossing from Denmark.

In Catalonia, the effect of Mr. Puigdemont’s arrest was immediate as protesters took to the streets of Barcelona, above, and clashed with the authorities.

_____

• High-level officials from North and South Korea meet this week to discuss the agenda for the talks between their leaders, Kim Jong-un and Moon Jae-in, which will set the stage for possible talks between Mr. Kim and President Trump. Above, a meeting last week between officials from both sides.

Around 30,000 North Koreans have successfully defected to the South in total, but far fewer are getting out under the reign of Mr. Kim.

Our reporters reconstructed the harrowing story of five who never made it.

_____

• In Hungary, a narrow majority of voters want the country’s far-right prime minister, Viktor Orban, out of office, but have no single party to rally behind because the opposition refuses to join forces behind a unity candidate.

This has enraged voters whose frustrations with Mr. Orban, above, outweigh their support for any particular opposition politician.

_____

• Marijuana is legal to buy in the Netherlands, but not to grow.

That has forced licensed coffee shops to rely on the black market to stock up. A pilot program will test legalizing production.

Supporters hope decriminalization will help assure that users have access to safer marijuana. Above, an illegal cannabis farm, just after a raid by the Dutch police last month.

_____

• Internet companies like Facebook and Google were built on a model in which people gave up their information for free services. Now, that idea is under siege by governments around the world.

• Qantas Airways made a giant leap forward in long-haul travel with an inaugural nonstop flight between Australia and Britain in 17 hours.

• We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona.

• Louis Vuitton has hired Virgil Abloh as a street wear specialist for its growing luxury men’s line. He will be one of the few black designers at the top of a French heritage house.

• Asian markets had a tough open after U.S. stocks dropped on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• A pothole epidemic has turned the streets of Rome, above, the city that built an empire on its roads, into an embarrassing mess. [The New York Times]

• A fire at a shopping mall in Russia has killed at least 37 people, and dozens more are missing. [The New York Times]

• Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party in Britain, apologized for “pockets” of anti-Semitism in its ranks after Jewish leaders issued an open letter pinpointing hostility to Jews. [The Guardian]

• In Japan, home to the world’s oldest population, prisons have become a haven for lonely older women in search of community and stability. [Bloomberg]

• Sweden’s state curriculum urges teachers to “counteract traditional gender roles.” At one school, girls are encouraged to shout “No!” and boys run the play kitchen. Exactly how this teaching method affects children is still unclear. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Explore how to age with meaning and happiness.

• Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different.

• Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.

• For nearly a decade, the photographer John Moore has traversed the Mexico-U.S. border, covering the immigration story from all sides. Here are 17 of his striking images.

• In memoriam: Gary Lincoff, 75, a self-taught mycologist who spread the joy of mushrooms far and wide.

• Are you really in love if it’s not on Instagram? In an Op-Ed, a writer questions — and laments — the blurring of peoples’ personal and online lives.

Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here’s the list.)

We’d like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of “Lamento Borincano,” by Canario y Su Grupo.

Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, “Lamento Borincano” was composed by Rafael Hernández, one of the island’s most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).

The song’s title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Rico’s indigenous name.

The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of immigration north.

The lyrics tell of a farmer who is “loco de contento” (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:

Chris Stanford contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)

Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

KANSAS CITY, Kan. — Day after day, Kris W. Kobach, the secretary of state of Kansas, grilled people on the witness stand about voter fraud. From behind a courtroom lectern, he questioned the effectiveness of national election law. Sometimes he endured verbal lashings on proper legal procedure from the exasperated judge.

And Kansans watched and wondered: Should they make him their next governor?

Appearing as both defendant and lawyer, Mr. Kobach, a Republican who last year announced a run for governor, was at the center of a trial that concluded on Monday in the Robert J. Dole Federal Courthouse. A hard-liner on issues of illegal immigration and voting restrictions, he is fighting to preserve a voter registration law requiring Kansans to show proof of citizenship to register to vote.

Mr. Kobach, 51, has established himself as a leading voice claiming widespread voter fraud, serving last year as the vice chair of a short-lived presidential commission on the issue. A Trump ally and familiar face on cable news, he is testing whether he can leverage his national profile to win an office higher than the relatively obscure post of secretary of state.

The court battle has offered Mr. Kobach, who is in a competitive field of Republicans running for governor, a public forum to lay out his claims of voter fraud even as President Trump’s commission was abruptly disbanded without making a case that there is a pervasive problem.

Critics say that Mr. Kobach is wildly exaggerating the potential of noncitizens casting ballots and, in the process, disenfranchising lawful voters, especially minorities, young people and the poor. Experts on election law tend to agree that voter fraud is not a common problem in American elections.

The trial is the result of a lawsuit that the American Civil Liberties Union filed in 2016 against Mr. Kobach on behalf of the League of Women Voters and individual Kansans. Whatever the outcome — a judge is not expected to render a verdict for at least a month — much rests on what people in this conservative state come away thinking.

“With Kobach, you either love him or hate him,” said Stuart Clark, a Republican from Lenexa, Kan., as he wandered through a shopping mall in Overland Park, south of Kansas City, on the first evening of the trial. “Sometimes, I think he pushes at the edge a little too much. But overall, I like what he says, and I guess he figures he can defend the law as well as anybody.”

Mr. Clark, who owns a plumbing business, said he supported Mr. Kobach’s efforts on voter identification laws.

“Why would you have a problem having to show an I.D.?” he said. “We show I.D. for so many things. It just seems like common sense.”

Others are less convinced by Mr. Kobach’s claims that voter fraud is pervasive and widespread. “To me, it’s a fix to a problem that doesn’t exist,” said Jeff Nielsen, standing behind the counter of a pawnshop he manages in Olathe, Kan. Mr. Nielsen, who works in Kansas, lives across the border in Missouri, grew up Republican and supports gun ownership — a wall of rifles was behind him in the shop — but now votes for Democrats. “I think Kobach should be a little more concerned with Russians picking our president than with Mexicans voting,” he said.

In 2016, Federal District Judge Julie A. Robinson in Kansas ruled that the proof-of-citizenship requirement of the state law that Mr. Kobach championed violated federal law. If Judge Robinson rules against Mr. Kobach in the current trial, thousands of Kansans who attempted to register to vote at a Department of Motor Vehicles office but did not provide proof of citizenship will see their registrations reinstated. If Mr. Kobach prevails, it could become more difficult for residents without proof of citizenship to vote in the 2018 elections.

Early in the trial, Judge Robinson reprimanded Mr. Kobach, who frequently stumbled on legal procedure, for attempting to display documents that had not been formally introduced as evidence. “Evidence 101 — not going to do it,” she said.

In his opening statements, Mr. Kobach, Harvard-educated and Yale Law School-trained, criticized current rules as weak and porous, arguing that a requirement that voters attest on a form at the Department of Motor Vehicles that they are citizens — risking a penalty of perjury for a false statement — is not enough. “All you had to do was check a box,” he said. “That was essentially it.”

Mr. Kobach says that even though he has documented a relatively small number of noncitizens in Kansas who have attempted to vote, he has reason to believe that they are only “the tip of the iceberg” and that thousands more exist on the state voter rolls.

But Dale Ho, a lawyer for the A.C.L.U., said that the law Mr. Kobach lobbied for has made it difficult or impossible for some state residents who do not have a birth certificate, passport or other proof of citizenship to vote. Experts in election law say that noncitizens successfully voting rarely happens.

“Enforcing this law is like taking a bazooka to a fly,” Mr. Ho said. “The collateral damage in this case has been thousands of Kansas voters.”

In his closing statements on Monday, Mr. Ho added, “The iceberg, on close inspection, your honor, it’s more of an ice cube.”

The trial made headlines around the state for two weeks and was closely watched in Johnson County, a densely populated cluster of suburbs outside of Kansas City. The county is home to close to 600,000 of Kansas’s 2.9 million residents, including Jeff Colyer, the state’s new governor, who still keeps a plastic surgery practice there. Mr. Kobach, who has been secretary of state in Kansas since 2011, was a member of the Overland Park City Council in Johnson County from 1999 to 2001.

Sam Brownback, a Republican who served as Kansas’s governor for seven years, left office last month to take an ambassadorship in Washington, leaving Mr. Colyer, formerly the lieutenant governor, leading the state. Mr. Kobach intends to challenge Mr. Colyer for the Republican nomination in an August primary; the general election will take place in November.

A poll in February showed Mr. Kobach locked in a tight race with Mr. Colyer, who kept a low profile during his years as lieutenant governor and whose positions are something of a mystery to many Kansans. Half of the Republican voters in the poll had no opinion of Mr. Colyer, while a little more than one-third had a favorable opinion.

For his part, Mr. Kobach has a far more visible national profile as an ally of Mr. Trump and a familiar face on cable news.

At the Wooden Spoon restaurant in Overland Park, Victor Vallejo and Therese Allinder, both Republicans, said they had been hearing news of the Kobach trial and were encouraged that he was fighting for stricter measures on voting.

But Ms. Allinder, 57, an architect, said that did not translate to an automatic vote in the primary election for Mr. Kobach, whose single-minded focus can leave her unsettled. “He’s so extreme,” she said. “Brownback could never admit when he made a mistake. He made the state go broke with that tax cut, and he could never say, ‘I messed up.’ Kobach reminds me of him.”

Mr. Vallejo, 71, her companion, said he knew little about Mr. Colyer, the governor, but that Mr. Kobach was a familiar face. He welcomed Mr. Kobach’s message on immigration and voting rights. “I like Trump, so I like Kobach,” he said. “He’s on my side of the aisle.”

Mr. Kobach did not respond to a request for comment.

Democrats say they have tried to blot out the noise from the trial. At a recent forum in Topeka, seven candidates from the Democratic side took the stage, but the party has yet to coalesce around a single contender. To stand a chance in conservative Kansas, the Democratic nominee must attract significant numbers of independents and moderate Republicans.

At a mall in Overland Park, Larry Altman, a Democrat and retired lawyer who occasionally does volunteer work for the A.C.L.U. on education issues, shook his head at the mention of Mr. Kobach’s role in the courtroom that day.

‘You know the saying,” he said. “‘He who represents himself has a fool for a client.’”

As President Trump heads into one of the most critical phases of the special counsel’s investigation, his personal legal team has shrunk to essentially just one member, and he is struggling to find any top lawyers willing to represent him.

Working for a president is usually seen as a dream job. But leading lawyers in Washington and New York have repeatedly spurned overtures to take over the defense of Mr. Trump, a mercurial client who often ignores his advisers’ guidance. In some cases, lawyers’ firms have blocked any talks, fearing a backlash that would hurt business.

The president lost two lawyers in just the past four days, including one who had been on board for less than a week.

Joseph diGenova, a longtime Washington lawyer who has pushed theories on Fox News that the F.B.I. made up evidence against Mr. Trump, left the team on Sunday. He had been hired last Monday, three days before the head of the president’s personal legal team, John Dowd, quit after determining that the president was not listening to his advice. Mr. Trump had also considered hiring Mr. diGenova’s wife, Victoria Toensing, but she will also not join the team.

That leaves the president with just one personal lawyer who is working full time on the special counsel’s investigation as Mr. Trump is facing one of the most significant decisions related to it: whether to sit for an interview.

That lawyer, Jay Sekulow, is a conservative commentator who made his name on religious freedom cases. Mr. Sekulow is in talks with other lawyers about joining the team, although it is not clear how far those discussions have progressed.

Hours before the announcement of Mr. diGenova’s departure, which Mr. Sekulow said was related to a conflict of interest, the president took to Twitter to reject any suggestion that lawyers do not want to work for him.

“Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case … don’t believe the Fake News narrative that it is hard to find a lawyer who wants to take this on,” he wrote. “Fame & fortune will NEVER be turned down by a lawyer, though some are conflicted.”

Adding new lawyers, he said, would be costly because they would take months “to get up to speed (if for no other reason than they can bill more).”

“I am very happy with my existing team,” he added.

This month, the president met with the veteran lawyer Emmet Flood about the possibility of joining the legal team. But Mr. Trump was put off by the fact that Mr. Flood, a Republican, had represented Bill Clinton during his impeachment process, and Mr. Flood has made clear that he will not represent the president if Marc E. Kasowitz, his brash longtime personal lawyer, has any role in the effort.

Mr. Trump also tried to recruit Theodore B. Olson, a well-known Republican lawyer, but Mr. Olson has said he would not be representing the president.

The first phase of legal work for Mr. Trump in the inquiry by the special counsel, Robert S. Mueller III, was led by a White House lawyer, Ty Cobb. That work, which in part involved the production of documents and the arrangement of interviews with White House officials, has been largely completed.

The second phase, which is now focused on the question of a presidential interview with Mr. Mueller, had been led by Mr. Dowd. One reason Mr. Dowd quit was that, against his advice, Mr. Trump was insistent that he wanted to answer questions under oath from Mr. Mueller, believing that it would help clear him.

Mr. Dowd had concluded that there was no upside and that the president, who often does not tell the truth, could increase his legal exposure if his answers were not accurate.

Roger Cossack, a seasoned legal analyst, said the key to successfully defending a high-profile client under immense scrutiny was to have a cohesive legal team with a consistent strategy.

“In these types of cases, you need highly competent lawyers and a client who will listen and follow their advice,” Mr. Cossack said. “If you don’t have both, you have what we’re seeing here: chaos and disaster.”

“You have a client who clearly thinks he has a better idea of how things should work than the lawyers who, from time to time, have told him things he doesn’t want to hear,” he added. “He is looking for the guy who can say, ‘I know how to handle Mueller, I know you think he is bad, and we’ll take care of it.’ Problem is you can’t find that lawyer because no one will be able to do that.”

People close to the president say the upheaval in the legal team was inevitable. When Mr. Kasowitz took the lead after Mr. Mueller was appointed in May, he wanted to follow a model used by Mr. Clinton, with a separate team of lawyers and communications professionals handling issues related to the inquiry, so that the White House staff could keep its distance.

But Mr. Trump, who trusts few people and considers himself his best lawyer, spokesman and strategist, never wanted that type of system. As a result, his legal and public relations strategies have been out of sync, with the president at times publicly contradicting his lawyers, and the White House often finding itself flat-footed in the face of new disclosures about the Russia investigation.

The president’s decision has also exposed many of his aides, leaving them deeply enmeshed in an inquiry that is likely to cost them tens of thousands of dollars in legal fees.

But while Mr. Trump has struggled to find lawyers, his family and his close associates are being represented by some of the country’s top legal talent.

His son-in-law, Jared Kushner, has hired Abbe Lowell, a longtime Washington lawyer who recently got the Justice Department to drop corruption charges against Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, after a lengthy court fight.

Three prominent current and former White House officials — the former chief strategist, Stephen K. Bannon; the former chief of staff, Reince Priebus; and the White House counsel, Donald F. McGahn — are being represented by William A. Burck, who turned down the chance to represent the president. Mr. Burck, a former federal prosecutor, represented FIFA in its legal problems in the United States and has worked for high-profile witnesses in federal investigations, including Maureen McDonnell, the wife of a former Virginia governor.

The turmoil in Mr. Trump’s legal team started within weeks of the appointment of Mr. Mueller. Mr. Kasowitz pushed for an adversarial approach to the special counsel, which the president was poised to follow. But Mr. Kasowitz clashed with Mr. Kushner, and he was soon pushed aside after a series of missteps and embarrassing incidents.

The president then hired Mr. Cobb, a veteran Washington lawyer, to lead efforts within the White House, as well as Mr. Dowd, who was put in charge of his personal legal team. They advocated a strategy of cooperation, telling the president that the sooner he gave Mr. Mueller’s office what it wanted, the sooner his name would be cleared.

While Mr. Cobb had told the president that the investigation would be over by now, it seems to be accelerating. Mr. Mueller is still looking into a wide range of matters related to Mr. Trump’s corporate activities, his 2016 campaign, his associates and his time in office.

Mr. Trump, hoping to bolster his team, met with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing in recent days but, according to two people told of details about the meeting, did not believe he had personal chemistry with them.

There were also significant conflict-of-interest issues, but Mr. Trump could have waived them if he wanted. Ms. Toensing is representing Mark Corallo, who was the spokesman for Mr. Trump’s legal team in 2017 before they parted ways. Mr. Corallo has told investigators that he was concerned that a close aide to Mr. Trump, Hope Hicks, may have been planning to obstruct justice during the drafting of a statement about a meeting between a Russian lawyer and Donald Trump Jr. during the campaign.

Ms. Hicks’s lawyer has strongly denied that suggestion, and White House aides said Mr. Corallo’s assertion had come up in discussions with the president as he weighed whether to go ahead with Mr. diGenova and Ms. Toensing.

Mr. diGenova had been expected to serve as an outspoken voice for the president as Mr. Trump has increased his attacks on Mr. Mueller. Mr. diGenova has endorsed the notion that a secretive group of F.B.I. agents concocted the Russia investigation as a way to keep Mr. Trump from becoming president, a theory with little supporting evidence.

“There was a brazen plot to illegally exonerate Hillary Clinton and, if she didn’t win the election, to then frame Donald Trump with a falsely created crime,” he had told Fox News in January.

VIENNA —  Austria's government, the only one in Western Europe to include the far right, has spent much of its first 100 days dealing with anti-Semitism scandals and other unforeseen headwinds but only the anti-immigrant Freedom Party has suffered damage so far.

After an election dominated by Europe's migration crisis, Chancellor Sebastian Kurz's conservatives and the Freedom Party (FPO) have stuck to their hard line on immigration, pledging to cut benefits for refugees and workers' children living abroad.

But unscripted incidents have been piling up, from allegations of an FPO-driven purge at a domestic intelligence agency to unexpectedly stiff opposition to the government's plans to allow smoking in bars and restaurants.

So far, the 31-year-old Kurz has stayed largely on-message, if slightly withdrawn, while most of the blame for recent setbacks has stuck to the FPO, costing it support both in regional elections and national opinion polls.

"The FPO grew up as an opposition party," political analyst Anton Pelinka said. "As a government party they are certainly going to have to suffer heavy losses. That is already becoming clear."

During more than a decade in opposition the FPO presented itself as the only alternative to the Alpine republic's tradition of centrist coalitions like the last one, between Kurz's People's Party (OVP) and the Social Democrats.

While it has only lost a few points in polls since securing 26 percent in October's parliamentary election, the FPO has failed to match that score in all three provincial votes this year. Polls show support for the OVP unchanged at about 32 percent.

A cartoon this month in the Oberoesterreichische Nachrichten newspaper illustrated the mood, showing a suited Kurz walking on water while FPO leader Heinz-Christian Strache was neck-deep in it, arms flailing from his life jacket.

The FPO has certainly been in more hot water than Kurz and his party.

An anti-Semitism affair that has engulfed two right-wing fraternities close to the FPO prompted the party to set up a committee of historians to examine its past - an effort that Austria's Jewish community views with scepticism.

The FPO also championed the right to smoke in bars and restaurants, spurring more than half a million people to sign a petition calling for a smoking ban, embarrassing a party that has simultaneously called for more direct democracy.

Strache also had to pay 10,000 euros ($12,350) in damages and issue a public apology to settle a defamation case brought by Austria's top news anchor after he posted a message on Facebook accusing him and state broadcaster ORF of lying.

STRATEGIC SILENCE

But there is no sign so far that voters, many of whom had grown tired of bickering, often dysfunctional centrist coalitions, blame Kurz for bringing the FPO into government.

And although allegations of a purge by the FPO interior minister at the BVT intelligence agency have caused tension, the two parties and their leaders have largely avoided public disputes, in contrast to previous governments.

"Despite several potential conflicts they have been able to avoid open discord," political analyst Thomas Hofer said. "The crisis management has been good."

Kurz's public comments have been so disciplined that he has been mocked for being too cautious or even silent. A satirical website said the late British physicist Stephen Hawking had bequeathed his speech synthesizer to Kurz to enable him "to communicate with the outside world again".

That criticism appears confined to the Vienna bubble for the time being.

Economic growth in the affluent European Union country of 10 million people has picked up and is projected to reach around 3 percent this year, giving the government some fiscal leeway.

It plans to cut taxes and balance the budget next year but has so far shied away from serious structural reform. And it could ultimately be judged on whether it lives up to pledges to overhaul the public sector that have largely yet to be clearly defined.

"For the moment that is evidently still working - being popular without saying anything of substance," Pelinka said. "How long can that last? Certainly not forever. But it could be one, two, three years."

($1 = 0.8099 euros)

(Editing by Mark Heinrich)

UNION CITY, N.J. — Senator Robert Menendez officially announced his intention to run for re-election at a raucous rally on Wednesday, a remarkable turn two months after federal prosecutors dismissed corruption charges against the New Jersey Democrat.

With nearly every state Democratic luminary inside a packed high school gymnasium here, it was an unusual show of force for a candidate who already enjoys a considerable lead in early polling.

In his kickoff speech, sometimes delivered in Spanish, Mr. Menendez vowed that he would continue to fight against President Trump’s agenda.

“There is a president in Washington who spends his days dividing us and distracting us, but never delivering for us,” Mr. Menendez said, drawing some of his loudest cheers.

In January, it was far from assured that Mr. Menendez would even be on the stage. For 11 weeks last year, the senator was a defendant in a federal corruption trial with headlines tracing the prosecution’s case, which accused him of abusing his office to help his friend and co-defendant, Dr. Salomon Melgen, an eye doctor and political benefactor from Florida.

But after jurors could not reach a verdict, the judge declared a mistrial and Mr. Menendez pronounced himself vindicated. Then the situation quickly changed. First, the Department of Justice announced that it would retry Mr. Menendez. Then the federal judge who oversaw the trial acquitted Mr. Menendez of several charges, severely hampering the retrial effort. Within days, the Department of Justice had dropped the case.

If Mr. Menendez was ever worried about his political future, he seemed determined to dispel any notion of that on Wednesday. His campaign playlist featured numbers like “The Champion” by Carrie Underwood and “I Won’t Back Down” by Tom Petty.

The people lining the rows in front of the stage at the rally, in the town where he began his political career, were a who’s who of New Jersey Democratic politics: Senator Cory Booker, Gov. Philip D. Murphy, Brian P. Stack, the mayor of Union City, and John Currie, the state party chairman.

“I asked the question this morning, ‘Where would we be without Bob Menendez?’ ” Mr. Murphy said.

While none of the speakers made explicit reference to Mr. Menendez’s legal battle, a common theme emerged: that the senator was, and always has been, “a fighter.”

“This is the man that we need in this fight,” said Mr. Booker, whose 10-minute introduction reached such a crescendo that his voice grew hoarse. “This is the man who will help us to stand against the storm, this is the man that is ready to continue to defend the State of New Jersey.”

Nearly the entire 2,800-student population of Union City High School, excused from four periods of classes, filled the gymnasium, waving campaign fliers and bopping to the music of Marc Anthony and Luis Fonsi.

Mr. Menendez focused much of his speech on the youth in the crowd, recalling the nationwide protests for stronger gun laws and how the students at the School had their own protest. It was the youth, he said, that motivated him to run again.

“While some of you are not old enough to vote, I am not here to ask for your vote, I am here because I am your vote in the United States Senate,” he said.

Mr. Menendez’s path to the Democratic nomination is fairly clear. If successful, his likely Republican opponent in the general election will be Bob Hugin, a former pharmaceutical executive with ties to former Gov. Chris Christie. Mr. Hugin’s ability to tap his fortune to finance his campaign could make the contest expensive and possibly more competitive than expected.

The race could also turn nasty. At the rally, members of the state Republican Party handed out Monopoly-like cards with Mr. Menendez’s face on a cartoon prisoner and a photo of Mr. Menendez and Mr. Melgen vacationing together.

If Mr. Menendez’s corruption trial dampened enthusiasm among Democrats it could spell trouble for other Democratic candidates in November. Democrats across the country are looking to House races in New Jersey as opportunities to pick up seats as they seek to wrest control from Republicans, but Democrats in those races will need a strong turnout to stand a chance.

For his part, Mr. Menendez has a keen understanding of local politics, having climbed nearly every rung on the political ladder, from school board member to mayor to state senator to congressman to United States senator, a position he assumed in 2005, when he was appointed by Gov. Jon S. Corzine.

He has been re-elected twice, in 2006 and 2012, and has been a prolific fund-raiser, having raised $17 million for his 2012 re-election, according to Federal Election Commission records.

Mr. Menendez on Wednesday referred to his roots and a career that started in this city’s school district as evidence of an American dream fulfilled.

“That is the promise of America,” he said, offering a subtle dig at Mr. Trump’s immigration policies. “That is the American dream. The idea that anything is possible because everyone is welcome.”

COLUMBUS, Ohio —  Sitting in apartment complexes on opposite sides of town, the women — one a former shopkeeper from Somalia, the other a teacher from Bhutan — waited for children to come home.

Only the teacher, Devi Gurung, was rewarded for her patience.

On the landing outside an apartment decorated with Buddhist prayer flags, she watched as a school bus turned down the block and the niece she had not seen in four years, hopped to the curb.

"I am lucky," said Gurung, reunited with her sister's family just a few days earlier after spending more than half her life in a refugee camp.

The next morning, Amina Olow smiled, too, but faintly, as she recalled the daughters she has not seen in nearly a decade. Then she unfolded a letter from U.S. immigration officials, dated more than a year ago, that seemed to promise the two girls would join her soon. She's heard nothing since.

"My kids, they're a part of my body," Olow said, her voice breaking.

Olow and Gurung are both here, within 20 minutes of Ohio State University's football horseshoe, because the U.S. government has granted them safe haven. But that's where their stories diverge.

Starting early last year, the administration of President Donald Trump banned arrivals from several, mostly Muslim countries, cut the cap on refugee admissions and suspended a program to reunite families split in the resettlement pipeline.

For thousands of refugee families already building new lives in the U.S., the changes are playing out in decidedly unnerving and uneven ways. The restrictions have kept many families apart, while allowing some to reunite, sorting people by country, and effectively by religion.

When Somali refugee Fadumo Hussein and her daughters joined protesters at John Glenn Columbus International Airport last January to protest the administration's restrictions on arrivals, they did so for very personal reasons. Weeks before the ban was announced, Hussein's parents, who are 75 and 76, had been approved for entry to the U.S. Their arrival was scheduled for last February. More than a year later, they remain stuck in Uganda, their case on hold.

Watching Bhutanese neighbors welcome their own family members from a refugee camp in the months since, Hussein's been "happy for them because they were able to reunite," but also confused.

"What is different about us, like Somalis or the other countries that are being banned," her daughter, Afnan Salem, asked, "when we are all coming for the same reasons?

___

In the mid-1800s, Ohio's capital city became a stronghold of German immigrants, who settled in the red-brick blocks that now form a historic "village" just south of downtown.

But in recent years, Columbus has become a magnet for refugees from Africa, Asia and Eastern Europe. They're drawn by affordable rents, plentiful jobs in distribution centers that require little or no English — and, most importantly, family already here.

Low-rise apartment complexes on Columbus' north side have become the center of the largest U.S. population of Bhutanese refugees, most who are Buddhist or Hindu and were expelled during a government-led ethnic cleansing campaign against ethnic Nepalis in the early 1990s.

More than 20,000 Bhutanese now live alongside the country's second largest Somali refugee community — overwhelmingly Muslim, and from one of the countries whose arrivals have been most sharply reduced. They've been joined by a growing population of refugees from the Democratic Republic of Congo, most of them Christian.

Today, shopping centers on or near Morse Road are speckled with Nepali groceries and African restaurants serving dishes with the staple cassava flour called fufu.

"Everybody has a dream that if I go, there will be a chance for my son to come or my mother to come," said Jhuma Acharya, who came to Columbus as a refugee from Bhutan and now works for Community Refugee & Immigration Services, or CRIS, one of the city's two resettlement agencies.

But for many, Trump's policies have shaken those expectations.

"There's certainly a pretty dramatic shift" in the mix and number of refugees being allowed in, said Kathleen Newland, a fellow at the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington, D.C., think tank.

The U.S. is on track to take in the smallest number of refugees since Congress passed a law in 1980 creating the modern resettlement system. At the current rate, the U.S. will take in about 21,000 refugees this fiscal year, well below the cap of 45,000 set by the administration and roughly a quarter those granted entry in the final year of Barack Obama's presidency.

The administration is also cutting the resettlement system itself, telling executives of nine private agencies they must close any office expected to place fewer than 100 refugees this year.

In citing security concerns to exclude refugees from certain countries, Newland said, the administration has skewed the ethnic and religious makeup of the much smaller number allowed entry. About 15 percent of refugees admitted to the U.S. this fiscal year are Muslim, down from 47 percent a year ago, federal figures show.

U.S. officials say there is no preference for refugees of one religion over another: "The United States is committed to assisting people of all religions, ethnicities, and nationalities who are fleeing persecution, violence, and other drivers of displacement," a State Department spokeswoman said in a written response to questions. The administration resumed the program to reunify refugee families in December, she said, responding to a judge's injunction.

Trump's policies have sharply cut refugee arrivals to many cities. In Toledo, for example, the resettlement agency US Together had taken in 180 Syrians since 2014. Since last July, though, there has not been a single new arrival from the country, program director Corine Dehabey said.

But renewed admissions of refugees from Bhutan and Congo, as well as from Ukraine, have made Columbus something of an anomaly, said Angie Plummer, executive director of CRIS.

Most Americans probably know little of either the tiny Himalayan kingdom or the country long known as Zaire. But Trump's policy has left them as the two largest contributors to the dwindling pool of new refugees, accounting for 45 percent of the 8,600 arrivals since October, government figures show.

"We are not Muslims that they would hate to bring here ... and we're not from any of the listed countries," said Sudarshan Pyakurel, who arrived as a refugee in 2010 and is now director of the Bhutanese Nepali Community of Columbus, a center offering English classes, wellness programs and walk-in assistance. "We don't fit in any of those boxes."

Authorities plan to close the camp housing Bhutanese this year, and relocate most of its last remaining inhabitants to the U.S. But early last year, "there was a rumor back in the refugee camp that America was not taking any more refugees," Devi Gurung said. The Trump's administration's freeze on new admissions left her worrying if she'd ever again see her older sister, Harka, who was resettled in Columbus with her husband and daughter in 2014.

That was until last month, when Gurung and her parents learned they had been approved for entry. By then, her father, Til Bahadur Gurung, 59, said he had long given up hope of returning to the land in southern Bhutan where he had farmed rice and millet. The only planes they'd ever seen were the ones that crossed the sky over the refugee camp.

But after 18 hours in the air, the elder Gurung exited the vessel he calls "the big tube." Eden, his 8-year-old granddaughter, was waiting to embrace him.

In recent months, far fewer Muslim families have experienced similar exultation. In the first two months of this year, the U.S. accepted 49 refugees from Somalia, 19 from Iraq and five from Syria. That is down sharply from the 1,094 Somalis, 1,860 Iraqis and 1,991 Syrian refugees admitted in the first two months of 2017.

Just two years ago, CRIS assisted 15 to 30 new arrivals from Iraq, Iran, Syria and Afghanistan each month.

They included Alizabet Yandem and four of her children. In July 2016 they joined her husband, Rifat Moustafa, a lawyer who said he fled his native Syria after he was jailed and beaten with an electric cable for criticizing the Assad regime's record on human rights.

But their son, Hasib, remained in the Middle East after officials held up his petition. Moustafa suspected an objection to his son's malformed left arm and hand, which need surgery. But the family expected approval within months. Then the new administration took office, and the case stalled.

Officially, Trump's policies on refugees do not apply to Moustafa, who was granted political asylum after arrival in the U.S. But resettlement officials said they suspect the stepped up vetting and uncertainty under the new policies have caused widespread delays.

One recent afternoon, Moustafa chatted happily with his son via Facebook. But the father rushed out the door in sandals, ignoring the winter chill, as soon as the son began to sing of their five-year separation.

"I don't want him to see that I am crying," Moustafa said, lighting a Marlboro and wiping the back of a hand across his cheek. "I don't want to lose my child."

After years of working with many new arrivals, Firas Mousa, a former translator for the U.S. military in Iraq who works with refugees from the Middle East for CRIS, said he now has just a single active case. Those whose cases are stalled include his sister- and brother-in-law, who fled Iraq to Turkey in 2014. He said they were approved for refugee status by a UN surrogate agency in late 2016, but have heard nothing since.

"They said God will help us," Mousa said. "Logic tells me if Trump is president I can't expect any new refugees."

___

For those already here, the changes are playing out in what can seem haphazard ways.

A few minutes before midnight, Esta Ausa peered down the concourse of the Columbus airport, ignoring friends' teasing to relax and sit down. It had been 18 months since Ausa, 22, left her parents, brothers and sisters behind in a refugee camp in Tanzania to enter the U.S.

The family is among 675,000 Congolese the United Nations estimates have fled to neighboring countries, first to escape a brutal civil war and then renewed ethnic violence. After the U.S. put a temporary hold on new refugees last year, Ausa said, her parents' approval to enter the U.S. was canceled twice.

"We didn't know what to expect," said Ausa, her words translated by Eric Rusingiza, a CRIS caseworker.

"They thought it was the end of their family coming," Rusingiza said.

Then, the family's American dream came true.

Ausa spotted a group of bewildered arrivals — their brand new red-yellow-and-blue winter jackets standing out in the brightly lit and nearly empty terminal.

"Mama?" she said. Then she danced toward the security perimeter, enfolding her mother, Mwavita Maulidi, in her arms.

"I thank God for everything," said her father, Ausa Emedi, 46. In coming days, one of the first tasks would be seeking out a doctor who can ensure his treatment for epilepsy. But that would have to wait.

At 1:30 a.m., Emedi hauled bags into a bare two-bedroom apartment, paid for with aid the U.S. provides to covers refugees' expenses during their first 90 days. One of his daughters, Machozi, 16, walked from room to room, opening closet and cabinet doors. Then they stood wide-eyed as the case worker demonstrated the workings of a flush toilet — like none they had ever seen before.

"They want to learn everything on the same day and it really can't happen," Rusingiza said. "It will take time."

As the Ausas woke for their first morning in America, Olow, the Somali refugee, took a break from work to tell a decidedly different story.

When Olow last saw her daughters, 13-year-old Neemotallah and 10-year-old Nastexo, they were babies.

At the time, she was running a food shop in South Africa. After rioters attacked foreigners across that country in 2008 and looted her store, she took her daughters to live with their aunt in Kenya, and tried unsuccessfully to salvage her business. She was admitted to the U.S. in 2014.

U.S. officials eventually accepted DNA tests proving her kinship with the girls, said Olow, who now works in an apartment leasing office, the only staffer in a hijab. She unfolded the letter to her husband, a truck driver, from U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, approving her older daughter's petition and dated last March.

"We are a family. We have a right to be together," she said. "And the president should have empathy for families that have been dislocated, just like mine. We need one another."

As Olow walked back through the desks, site manager Janet Siford noticed her tears.

"Amina, I'm sorry," said Siford, herself the mother of four. "We got you, we got you. One day at a time, OK?"

She leaned over, wrapping her arms around Olow and cradling the refugee's scarfed head on her shoulder.

"We're like sisters," Siford said. "We hug. We laugh. We cry."

___

Multimedia journalist Martha Irvine contributed to this report.

WASHINGTON —  The U.S. decision to expel 60 alleged spies is unlikely to cripple Russian spying in the United States because others have wormed and hacked their way into American companies, schools, and even the government, current and former U.S. officials said.

Moscow's spy services still use the cover of embassies and consulates, as Washington does. But they also recruit Russian emigres, establish front companies, dispatch short-term travelers to the United States, recruit Americans, and penetrate computer networks, the officials said.

"Russia used to have one way of doing things. Now, Putin is - let a thousand flowers bloom," a former senior U.S. official said in a recent interview, describing Moscow's move to a more multifaceted approach under President Vladimir Putin, a former Soviet spy himself.

The FBI follows the movements and monitors the communications of suspected foreign spies, but the increased Russian presence and the advent of commercially available encrypted communications are an added challenge to the FBI's counter-espionage force, said the officials, some of whom spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive topic.

As one U.S. official put it when asked if Russian spying is a harder target: "It’s more complex now. The complexity comes in the techniques that can be used."

While the CIA tracks foreign spies overseas and the National Security Agency monitors international communications, the FBI is responsible for spy-catching inside the United States.

The White House on Monday said it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, 12 of them at the U.N. mission, and close the Russian consulate in Seattle as part of a multi-nation response to the Kremlin's alleged nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.

Briefing reporters, a senior U.S. official said there were "well over" 100 Russian spies posing as diplomats in the United States before the expulsion order.

A veteran U.S. official charged with keeping tabs on Russian espionage said the administration downplayed the number of suspected Russian spies working under diplomatic cover to avoid giving the Russians a clearer picture of how many people are under surveillance.

The actual number varies over time, but "it averages more like 150 or so," the official said.

"We've got a very, very, very good counter-intelligence apparatus," said Robert Litt, a former general counsel for the U.S. Director of National Intelligence. "There are a lot of people in the FBI whose job it is to track these people - and they're very good at it."

TAKES TEN TO TANGO

Still, it can take 10 or more U.S. trained FBI and local law enforcement officers to keep tabs on one trained spy for a 24-hour period - covering back entrances to buildings and multiple elevators, and being alert for changes in clothes, cars and even hairpieces, the same official said.

One Russian tactic is sending a large number of people, including just one or two intelligence officers, streaming out of a diplomatic mission at once, making it harder for the FBI to decide whom to follow, said a former U.S. intelligence officer, also speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Microsoft Corp. was one target of the Russian espionage operation in Seattle, U.S. officials familiar with the expulsions said. One goal was identifying targets for recruitment in the company's coding operations because the company's products are used in so many applications, they said.

Microsoft declined comment.

In 2010, Alexey Karetnikov, a 23-year-old Russian spy who had worked at testing computer code in Microsoft's Richmond, Wash., headquarters, was deported by an immigration judge.

Several of the officials traced the Kremlin's more aggressive spying approach to Putin's 2012 return to the presidency, and Moscow's 2014 seizure of Crimea and intervention in eastern Ukraine.

"We observed a commensurate uptick in Russian intelligence and espionage activity in the U.S. and across Europe, although few analysts connected the dots," said Heather Conley, a former State Department official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank.

Michael Rochford, a former FBI chief for espionage, said the mass expulsion of suspected spies posing as diplomats will affect Russia's security services and dent morale at their Moscow headquarters.

After past expulsions, he said, Russian spies have handed their operations over to officers who remain behind, or to "illegals" - long-term agents with no demonstrable connections to the Russian government.

The risk, he said, is that when Moscow replaces the expelled personnel, it will not be clear who the new spies are.

"Sometimes it's better to know who they are and follow them," he said.

(Additional reporting by Jonathan Landay; Editing by Mary Milliken and James Dalgleish)

HONOLULU —  John Fitisemanu, who works for a lab company in Utah, has paid U.S. taxes and been subject to American laws his whole life. But the 53-year-old father and husband isn't considered a U.S. citizen by the federal government because he was born in American Samoa, a U.S. territory and the only place in the country without automatic claim to citizenship. Now, he's suing to be recognized as an American.

Fitisemanu is the lead plaintiff on a lawsuit filed Tuesday on behalf of American Samoans in Utah to be treated as U.S. citizens under the 14th Amendment of the Constitution. The Associated Press obtained the documents before the case was filed.

American Samoa, a U.S. territory since 1900, is a cluster of islands 2,600 miles (4,184 kilometers) southwest of Hawaii perpetually stuck in a legal loophole. People born in the territory are labeled U.S. nationals. Under that status, they cannot vote, run for office, sponsor family members for immigration to the U.S., apply for certain government jobs, or serve on a jury -- despite paying taxes to Uncle Sam. They're even issued special U.S. passports that say: "This bearer is a United States national and not a United States citizen."

With colleagues, "it's kind of like an office joke -- 'Hey! John is not a citizen, he's an alien!' I know they're joking, but it still hurts," Fitisemanu told the AP. "It feels like a slap in your face, that you're born on U.S. soil, but you're not recognized as a U.S. citizen."

He's been rejected for jobs that list U.S. citizenship as a requirement. Prospective employers "need me to show them proof that I am a U.S. citizen, which I am not." Around elections, "I sit quietly at my cubicle, and don't say a word, because I know I can't vote," he said. "It's kind of embarrassing."

Rosavita Tuli, another plaintiff in the case, has had to obtain special permits and pay fees that wouldn't apply to U.S. citizens when visiting her aging parents outside American Samoa, according to court documents.

Although American Samoans can pursue naturalized citizenship, the lawsuit says it is a "lengthy, costly, and burdensome" process. The cost to apply is $725, and legal fees pile up if applicants hire an attorney to help navigate the process. For Fitisemanu, a previous divorce and other financial burdens have prevented him from going that route.

Also, "there's no guarantee of success," said Neil Weare, the attorney leading the suit, and president of non-profit Equally American. "If someone has a birth certificate showing they were born on U.S. soil, they shouldn't have to jump through any more hoops to be recognized as a U.S. citizen."

Those born in the territory, however, can claim citizenship at birth if one of their parents is a U.S. citizen. The same generally holds true for children born abroad to Americans.

This is Weare's second attempt on the issue. A previous case he led stalled in 2016 when the Supreme Court declined to reconsider a ruling from a lower court in D.C., which found the constitutional guarantee of birthright citizenship didn't apply to American Samoa, and referred back to controversial colonial era decisions from the early 20th century after the U.S. acquired a spate of territories in the Spanish American War.

Known as the "Insular Cases," the Supreme Court distinguished between "incorporated" and "unincorporated" territories. The former, such as Arizona and New Mexico, mostly settled by white people, were thought destined to be a permanent part of the U.S. The latter, such as American Samoa, weren't considered candidates for statehood, whose inhabitants were described as "alien races" and "uncivilized," and thus weren't granted full constitutional rights.

Over the years, Congress has decided on a per territory basis to allow those born in Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands to claim citizenship by birth. American Samoa's population of about 55,000, however, has continued to fall to the wayside.

"This is the holding pattern we've been in now for over a century," said Sam Erman, an expert in constitutional law and a professor at the University of Southern California. Still, Erman and many legal scholars agree that "American Samoans are clearly citizens under the 14th Amendment."

This lawsuit places a question mark over whether the millions that lived in the Philippines while the country was a U.S. territory for five decades until 1946 would also be able to seek U.S. citizenship, said Erman, who plans to file a legal brief on the current lawsuit.

The local American Samoan government has before taken a nuanced view over the issue, given concern about how aspects of Samoan life and culture "would be jeopardized if subjected to scrutiny under the 14th Amendment," according to court documents filed in 2014 by lawyers representing the government. American Samoa Governor Lolo Moliga didn't respond to a request for comment.

The U.S. State Department, named as the defendants on the lawsuit, didn't immediately respond to a request for comment.

Utah has a major Samoan population. If the case there is decided favorably, that would create a "circuit split" -- a conflicting ruling to what was previously decided in another court, which could add pressure to the Supreme Court to review.

Until then, Fitisemanu is standing firm: "People will say what they want to say, and I'm going to believe in what I want to believe, and I believe that I should be a U.S. citizen."

HONOLULU —  John Fitisemanu, who works for a lab company in Utah, has paid U.S. taxes and been subject to American laws his whole life. But the 53-year-old father and husband isn't considered a U.S. citizen by the federal government because he was born in American Samoa, a U.S. territory and the only place in the country without automatic claim to citizenship. Now, he's suing to be recognized as an American.

Fitisemanu is the lead plaintiff on a lawsuit filed Tuesday on behalf of American Samoans in Utah to be treated as U.S. citizens under the 14th Amendment of the Constitution. The Associated Press obtained the documents before the case was filed.

American Samoa, a U.S. territory since 1900, is a cluster of islands 2,600 miles (4,184 kilometers) southwest of Hawaii perpetually stuck in a legal loophole. People born in the territory are labeled U.S. nationals. Under that status, they cannot vote, run for office, sponsor family members for immigration to the U.S., apply for certain government jobs, or serve on a jury -- despite paying taxes to Uncle Sam. They're even issued special U.S. passports that say: "This bearer is a United States national and not a United States citizen."

With colleagues, "it's kind of like an office joke -- 'Hey! John is not a citizen, he's an alien!' I know they're joking, but it still hurts," Fitisemanu told the AP. "It feels like a slap in your face, that you're born on U.S. soil, but you're not recognized as a U.S. citizen."

He's been rejected for jobs that list U.S. citizenship as a requirement. Prospective employers "need me to show them proof that I am a U.S. citizen, which I am not." Around elections, "I sit quietly at my cubicle, and don't say a word, because I know I can't vote," he said. "It's kind of embarrassing."

Rosavita Tuli, another plaintiff in the case, has had to obtain special permits and pay fees that wouldn't apply to U.S. citizens when visiting her aging parents outside American Samoa, according to court documents.

Although American Samoans can pursue naturalized citizenship, the lawsuit says it is a "lengthy, costly, and burdensome" process. The cost to apply is $725, and legal fees pile up if applicants hire an attorney to help navigate the process. For Fitisemanu, a previous divorce and other financial burdens have prevented him from going that route.

Also, "there's no guarantee of success," said Neil Weare, the attorney leading the suit, and president of non-profit Equally American. "If someone has a birth certificate showing they were born on U.S. soil, they shouldn't have to jump through any more hoops to be recognized as a U.S. citizen."

Those born in the territory, however, can claim citizenship at birth if one of their parents is a U.S. citizen. The same generally holds true for children born abroad to Americans.

This is Weare's second attempt on the issue. A previous case he led stalled in 2016 when the Supreme Court declined to reconsider a ruling from a lower court in D.C., which found the constitutional guarantee of birthright citizenship didn't apply to American Samoa, and referred back to controversial colonial era decisions from the early 20th century after the U.S. acquired a spate of territories in the Spanish American War.

Known as the "Insular Cases," the Supreme Court distinguished between "incorporated" and "unincorporated" territories. The former, such as Arizona and New Mexico, mostly settled by white people, were thought destined to be a permanent part of the U.S. The latter, such as American Samoa, weren't considered candidates for statehood, whose inhabitants were described as "alien races" and "uncivilized," and thus weren't granted full constitutional rights.

Over the years, Congress has decided on a per territory basis to allow those born in Puerto Rico, Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands to claim citizenship by birth. American Samoa's population of about 55,000, however, has continued to fall to the wayside.

"This is the holding pattern we've been in now for over a century," said Sam Erman, an expert in constitutional law and a professor at the University of Southern California. Still, Erman and many legal scholars agree that "American Samoans are clearly citizens under the 14th Amendment."

This lawsuit places a question mark over whether the millions that lived in the Philippines while the country was a U.S. territory for five decades until 1946 would also be able to seek U.S. citizenship, said Erman, who plans to file a legal brief on the current lawsuit.

The local American Samoan government has before taken a nuanced view over the issue, given concern about how aspects of Samoan life and culture "would be jeopardized if subjected to scrutiny under the 14th Amendment," according to court documents filed in 2014 by lawyers representing the government. American Samoa Governor Lolo Moliga didn't respond to a request for comment.

The U.S. State Department, named as the defendants on the lawsuit, declined to comment on pending litigation.

Utah has a major Samoan population. If the case there is decided favorably, that would create a "circuit split" -- a conflicting ruling to what was previously decided in another court, which could add pressure to the Supreme Court to review.

Until then, Fitisemanu is standing firm: "People will say what they want to say, and I'm going to believe in what I want to believe, and I believe that I should be a U.S. citizen."

WASHINGTON —  The U.S. decision to expel 60 alleged spies is unlikely to cripple Russian spying in the United States because others have wormed and hacked their way into American companies, schools, and even the government, current and former U.S. officials said.

Moscow's spy services still use the cover of embassies and consulates, as Washington does. But they also recruit Russian emigres, establish front companies, dispatch short-term travelers to the United States, recruit Americans, and penetrate computer networks, the officials said.

"Russia used to have one way of doing things. Now, Putin is - let a thousand flowers bloom," a former senior U.S. official said in a recent interview, describing Moscow's move to a more multifaceted approach under President Vladimir Putin, a former Soviet spy himself.

The FBI follows the movements and monitors the communications of suspected foreign spies, but the increased Russian presence and the advent of commercially available encrypted communications are an added challenge to the FBI's counter-espionage force, said the officials, some of whom spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the sensitive topic.

As one U.S. official put it when asked if Russian spying is a harder target: "It’s more complex now. The complexity comes in the techniques that can be used."

While the CIA tracks foreign spies overseas and the National Security Agency monitors international communications, the FBI is responsible for spy-catching inside the United States.

The White House on Monday said it would expel 60 Russian diplomats, 12 of them at the U.N. mission, and close the Russian consulate in Seattle as part of a multi-nation response to the Kremlin's alleged nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain.

Briefing reporters, a senior U.S. official said there were "well over" 100 Russian spies posing as diplomats in the United States before the expulsion order.

A veteran U.S. official charged with keeping tabs on Russian espionage said the administration downplayed the number of suspected Russian spies working under diplomatic cover to avoid giving the Russians a clearer picture of how many people are under surveillance.

The actual number varies over time, but "it averages more like 150 or so," the official said.

"We've got a very, very, very good counter-intelligence apparatus," said Robert Litt, a former general counsel for the U.S. Director of National Intelligence. "There are a lot of people in the FBI whose job it is to track these people - and they're very good at it."

TAKES TEN TO TANGO

Still, it can take 10 or more U.S. trained FBI and local law enforcement officers to keep tabs on one trained spy for a 24-hour period - covering back entrances to buildings and multiple elevators, and being alert for changes in clothes, cars and even hairpieces, the same official said.

One Russian tactic is sending a large number of people, including just one or two intelligence officers, streaming out of a diplomatic mission at once, making it harder for the FBI to decide whom to follow, said a former U.S. intelligence officer, also speaking on the condition of anonymity.

Microsoft Corp. was one target of the Russian espionage operation in Seattle, U.S. officials familiar with the expulsions said. One goal was identifying targets for recruitment in the company's coding operations because the company's products are used in so many applications, they said.

Microsoft declined comment.

In 2010, Alexey Karetnikov, a 23-year-old Russian spy who had worked at testing computer code in Microsoft's Richmond, Wash., headquarters, was deported by an immigration judge.

Several of the officials traced the Kremlin's more aggressive spying approach to Putin's 2012 return to the presidency, and Moscow's 2014 seizure of Crimea and intervention in eastern Ukraine.

"We observed a commensurate uptick in Russian intelligence and espionage activity in the U.S. and across Europe, although few analysts connected the dots," said Heather Conley, a former State Department official now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies think tank.

Michael Rochford, a former FBI chief for espionage, said the mass expulsion of suspected spies posing as diplomats will affect Russia's security services and dent morale at their Moscow headquarters.

After past expulsions, he said, Russian spies have handed their operations over to officers who remain behind, or to "illegals" - long-term agents with no demonstrable connections to the Russian government.

The risk, he said, is that when Moscow replaces the expelled personnel, it will not be clear who the new spies are.

"Sometimes it's better to know who they are and follow them," he said.

(Additional reporting by Jonathan Landay; Editing by Mary Milliken and James Dalgleish)

ROME —  Italy's anti-establishment 5-Star Movement, the largest party in parliament after this month's election, should try to form a government with its far-right rivals the League, two of its senior politicians said on Tuesday.

The election produced a hung parliament and 5-Star has said it is willing to talk to all parties in parliament to try to form a government. However, the parliamentarians told Reuters they believed the only realistic hope of a coalition was with the League.

While many obstacles lie in the way of such an alliance, if a deal were to be struck it would likely cause concern in Brussels and among investors, due to both parties' hostility to EU rules on areas including budgets, trade and immigration.

The League has claimed the right to name the prime minister because it is the leading party in a centre-right bloc that won the most seats in parliament. Its leader, Matteo Salvini, said on Monday he was ready to talk to 5-Star about a coalition.

"Salvini is doing everything right and there are plenty of policies we can agree on," said a prominent 5-Star senator.

Salvini will meet 5-Star leader Luigi Di Maio next week in parliament, the League leader said in a television interview on Tuesday.

Both lawmakers who spoke to Reuters said they were encouraged by a change of stance from Salvini this week, who showed a willingness to consider income support for the poor, which is 5-Star's flagship policy.

Both asked not to be named because of the delicate state of negotiations on trying to put together a ruling coalition.

They dismissed the view expressed by some commentators that 5-Star's voters, who come mainly from the south, would be hostile to a deal with the League because its power base is in the rich north.

"Salvini has changed the League's identity, and he was elected in a southern seat himself," one said. "In any case, we are strongest in the south and we would guarantee the right policies for the south," the parliamentarian added.

"What our voters want most is that we should be in government," said the other. Both lawmakers were elected in the south.

5-Star won 33 percent of the vote in the election, compared with 17 percent for the League and 37 percent for the centre-right bloc as a whole, which includes former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi's Forza Italia (Go Italy!) and the right-wing Brothers of Italy.

MUTUAL PRAISE

The parties voted together on Saturday to elect the speakers of the two houses of parliament, and Salvini and Di Maio then praised each other for sticking to their word and proving their trustworthiness.

Despite this, there are still some major sticking points in the way of them hooking up, not least of which is Berlusconi's presence in the centre-right coalition.

5-Star, which bases its appeal on a pledge to clean up politics, is fiercely hostile to the four-times prime minister, who has a conviction for tax fraud and is on trial in another case for allegedly bribing witnesses.

"I would not find it acceptable for us to have a role in any government which includes Forza Italia," one of the lawmakers said. Salvini has vowed not to abandon his allies, saying such a shift would betray voters who backed the bloc at the ballot box.

Salvini repeated on Tuesday that he had no plans to abandon his coalition partners to form a government with 5-Star without them.

Another obstacle is who should become prime minister.

Salvini said on Monday he was ready to drop his claim if necessary, but he had previously said the candidate should in any case come from the center right, and it is far from clear that he would be willing to accept Di Maio.

5-Star appears less flexible.

"It's the will of the people," Di Maio said on the party's blog about him being named prime minister, underscoring the fact that 5-Star won nearly double the votes as the League.

"Di Maio cannot say or me or nothing," Salvini said during the recording of a Porta a Porta (Door to Door) talk show on RAI state television.

(Reporting by Gavin Jones, additional reporting by Alberto Sisto; Editing by Hugh Lawson and Alison Williams)

Today in History

Today is Tuesday, March 27, the 86th day of 2018. There are 279 days left in the year.

Today's Highlight in History:

On March 27, 1968, Soviet cosmonaut Yuri Gagarin (gah-GAH'-rihn), the first man to orbit the Earth in 1961, died when his MiG-15 jet crashed during a routine training flight near Moscow; he was 34.

On this date:

In 1513, Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon (hwahn pahns duh LEE'-ohn) sighted present-day Florida.

In 1625, Charles I acceded to the English throne upon the death of James I.

In 1794, Congress approved "An Act to provide a Naval Armament" of six armed ships.

In 1884, the first telephone line between Boston and New York was inaugurated.

In 1912, first lady Helen Herron Taft and the wife of Japan's ambassador to the United States, Viscountess Chinda, planted the first two of 3,000 cherry trees given to the U.S. as a gift by the mayor of Tokyo.

In 1933, Japan officially withdrew from the League of Nations.

In 1942, during World War II, Congress granted American servicemen free first-class mailing privileges.

In 1958, Nikita Khrushchev became Soviet premier in addition to First Secretary of the Communist Party.

In 1964, Alaska was hit by a magnitude 9.2 earthquake (the strongest on record in North America) and tsunamis that together claimed about 130 lives.

In 1977, in aviation's worst disaster, 583 people were killed when a KLM Boeing 747, attempting to take off in heavy fog, crashed into a Pan Am 747 on an airport runway on the Canary Island of Tenerife (ten-uh-REEF').

In 1980, 123 workers died when a North Sea floating oil field platform, the Alexander Kielland, capsized during a storm.

In 1998, the Food and Drug Administration approved the drug Viagra, made by Pfizer, saying it had helped about two-thirds of impotent men improve their sexual function.

Ten years ago: The Pentagon said Defense Secretary Robert Gates had ordered a full inventory of all nuclear weapons and related materials after the mistaken delivery of ballistic missile fuses to Taiwan.

Five years ago: Lawyers for Colorado theater shooting suspect James Holmes said he would plead guilty to the attack that killed 12 people and serve the rest of his life in prison to avoid the death penalty. (Prosecutors rejected the offer, but Holmes ended up being sentenced to life in prison anyway.) Former South African President Nelson Mandela was admitted to a hospital for pneumonia (he was discharged 10 days later).

One year ago: U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions warned so-called "sanctuary cities" they could lose federal money for refusing to cooperate with immigration authorities; city leaders vowed to intensify their fight against the promised crackdown despite the financial risks. NFL owners meeting in Phoenix approved the Oakland Raiders' move to Las Vegas 31-1; Miami was the lone dissenter.

Today's Birthdays: Dance company director Arthur Mitchell is 84. Actor Julian Glover is 83. Actor Jerry Lacy is 82. Hall of Fame racer Cale Yarborough is 79. Actor-director Austin Pendleton is 78. Actor Michael York is 76. Rock musician Tony Banks (Genesis) is 68. Rock musician Andrew Farriss (INXS) is 59. Jazz musician Dave Koz (kahz) is 55. Movie director Quentin Tarantino is 55. Rock musician Derrick McKenzie (Jamiroquai) is 54. Rock musician Johnny April (Staind) is 53. Actress Talisa Soto is 51. Actor Ben Koldyke is 50. Actress Pauley Perrette is 49. Singer Mariah Carey is 48. Rock musician Brendan Hill (Blues Traveler) is 48. Actress Elizabeth Mitchell is 48. Actor Nathan Fillion is 47. Hip-hop singer Fergie is 43. Actress Emily Ann Lloyd is 34. Actress Brenda Song is 30. Pop singer-songwriter Kimbra is 28. Actress Taylor Atelian is 23. Classical crossover singer Amira Willighagen (TV: "Holland's Got Talent") is 14.

Thought for Today: "A sheltered life can be a daring life as well. For all serious daring starts from within." — Eudora Welty, American author (1909-2001).

CHICAGO —  Despite squandering a late lead, the San Jose Sharks still managed to keep winning.

Kevin Labanc scored the deciding goal in the fourth round of a shootout and San Jose beat the Chicago Blackhawks 4-3 on Monday night for its eighth straight victory.

Labanc almost pulled to a stop in front of Chicago goalie Anton Forsberg, faked and then lifted in a nifty backhander. Logan Couture also connected in the tiebreaker for the surging Sharks, whose winning streak is their longest in seven years.

"We found a way," coach Peter DeBoer said. "I don't know any other way to put it."

Chicago's Patrick Sharp tied it at 3 with 2:22 left in the third period with a shot from the slot that hit Martin Jones' blocker and then tumbled into the net. Tomas Hertl had put the Sharks ahead 3-2 just 1:57 earlier with his 21st goal.

"It wasn't pretty for a lot of it, but we found a way to win," Jones said. "We've been doing that a lot lately, so that's a good sign."

Jones might not have looked great on Sharp's goal, but he made 28 saves through overtime and stopped three of four Blackhawks in the shootout. The veteran goalie came up with several point-blank saves in the third period and stoned Patrick Kane late in overtime.

"We wouldn't be where we're at (without Jones) and we sure wouldn't have an eight-game winning streak," DeBoer said. "He's been our best player a lot of nights in the last month."

The Sharks solidified their grip on a playoff spot and home-ice advantage in the first round.

San Jose's Evander Kane scored his 28th goal — his third in two games and eighth in 13 since being acquired from Buffalo at the trade deadline. Marcus Sorensen also had a goal for the Sharks.

Rookie forward Alex DeBrincat had his 26th goal and an assist, and Connor Murphy scored his second for the last-place Blackhawks, who have lost six of seven. Forsberg turned aside 35 shots through overtime.

"I thought we played pretty well," DeBrincat said. "We gave up a late goal, but we responded well."

Eventually, the Sharks had more going for them.

"I thought there were some decent things," Chicago coach Joel Quennevillle said, "but they're definitely playing well."

Chicago center Victor Ejdsell made his NHL debut and started the game on a line between Patrick Kane and Brandon Saad. The 6-foot-5, 22-year-old Swede was acquired from Nashville on Feb. 26 in a trade that sent Ryan Hartman to the Predators.

Sorensen opened the scoring 9:15 in, sliding a one-timer under Forsberg's right skate from the edge of the crease after taking Jannik Hansen's centering pass.

DeBrincat and Murphy scored 1:18 apart late in the first to give Chicago a 2-1 lead.

DeBrincat fired in a rebound with 4:28 left in the period — and 12 seconds after a Chicago power play had lapsed — to cap a rush. Murphy then connected on a shot from the right point as San Jose defenseman Brenden Dillon screened Jones.

Evander Kane tied it at 2 with 3:21 left in the second, finishing a breakaway set up by Chicago defenseman Brent Seabrook's turnover inside the San Jose blue line. Set up by Mikkel Boedker's stick, Evander Kane streaked in alone and beat Forsberg with a shot that trickled between the goalie's legs.

In the third, Jones made a point-blank save on Artem Anisimov's tip about eight minutes in. He denied Ejdsell and Hinostroza from the doorstep midway through the period.

After outbattling Chicago defenseman Erik Gustafsson on the right boards, Hertl sprinted to the net and beat Forsberg on the glove side to give San Jose a 3-2 lead with 4:19 left.

In overtime, Jones made a diving, close-in save on Patrick Kane with 1:20 left. Forsberg made a pad save on Evander Kane on a breakaway with 22 seconds to go.

NOTES: Sharks C Eric Fehr sat out with a lower-body injury, but Couture was back in the lineup after missing the end of San Jose's 5-1 win over Calgary on Saturday with an illness. ... Blackhawks captain Jonathan Toews (upper body) sat out his third game and forward Anthony Duclair (lower body) missed his eighth. Both are day to day. ... The Sharks signed University of Denver forward Dylan Gambrell to an entry-level contract, one day after his college season ended with a loss to Ohio State in an NCAA regional final. Gambrell, 21, was a second-round pick by San Jose in 2016. ... Chicago prospect and forward Dylan Sikura, who signed a two-year contact with the Blackhawks on Sunday after Northeastern University was eliminated from an NCAA regional, joined the team. The 22-year-old from Aurora, Ontario, is expected to make his debut Thursday against Winnipeg after immigration formalities are settled.

UP NEXT

Sharks: At the St. Louis Blues on Tuesday in the second of a four-game trip.

Blackhawks: Host the Winnipeg Jets on Thursday

___

More NHL hockey: https://apnews.com/tag/NHLhockey

LAS VEGAS —  Federal criminal charges have been filed against four alleged MS-13 street gang members who police have said are responsible for 10 killings during the last year in and around Las Vegas, authorities said Wednesday.

The announcement by Interim U.S. Attorney Dayle Elieson of one criminal case came two days after Clark County Sheriff Joe Lombardo in Las Vegas said the arrests of four adults and a 17-year-old who was being held as a juvenile broke up a murderous ring responsible for 10 slayings since March 2017.

Elieson said the four — all from El Salvador and ranging in age from 19 to 24 — face kidnapping, weapon and assault with intent to commit murder charges in the death of a 21-year-old rival gang member mutilated body was found Feb. 2 on federal land in desert mountains east of Las Vegas. Each could face life in prison if convicted.

The developments in Las Vegas follow recent declarations by President Donald Trump and Attorney General Jeff Sessions that they are committed to cracking down on MS-13. Trump blames lax U.S. immigration laws for allowing deported members of MS-13 to return to the U.S. to prey upon law-abiding people.

A criminal complaint alleges that Arquimides Sandoval-Martinez, a former El Salvador resident, was abducted early Jan. 21 outside a downtown Las Vegas club, bound with shoelaces and driven to the desert where he was hacked with a machete and shot.

In arguing for detention for three of the men pending trial, prosecutor Frank Coumou characterized the slaying as a "horrendous" ''mutilation killing."

The complaint, filed Tuesday in U.S. District Court in Las Vegas, says Josue Diaz-Orellana, 22, Luis Reyes-Castillo, 24, David Perez-Manchame, 19, and Miguel Torres-Escobar, 20 were arrested March 2 in Diaz-Orellana's car.

A large butcher knife, a bloodstained baseball hat and three 9mm handguns were also found in the car, the document alleges.

Reyes-Castillo, Perez-Manchame and Torres-Escobar appeared in court Wednesday beside newly appointed lawyers as a U.S. magistrate judge ordered them to remain in federal custody and set an April 11 date to hear evidence in the case. Each defendant wore wrist, waist and ankle shackles and thin white paper jumpsuits with no pockets for the court appearance.

Documents say Reyes-Castillo also used the name Molesto and Perez-Manchame used the names Herbi and Walter Melendez.

Diaz-Orellana is expected to appear for arraignment in coming days. He was charged March 20 with making a false statement to federal officers. He is accused of providing false identification documents following his arrest and saying he was a permanent U.S. resident who had applied for asylum. A different magistrate judge ordered him detained pending a preliminary hearing April 9.

A federal public defender representing Diaz-Orellana did not immediately respond Wednesday to messages.

The criminal complaint in his false information case says his car, a 2012 Ford Fusion, was seen on a state highway near Mount Charleston northwest of the city where the body of 26-year-old Earl R. Ryan was found March 2. Charges have not been filed in Ryan's death.

The gang known as La Mara Salvatrucha emerged in the 1980s as a neighborhood street gang in Los Angeles but is believed by federal prosecutors to have thousands of members across the U.S., primarily immigrants from El Salvador and Honduras. They have been linked to waves of violence in the suburbs of New York City, Washington, D.C., and other communities.

Lombardo, the elected head of the Las Vegas police department, estimated the number of MS-13 members in southern Nevada at fewer than 50.

___

A previous version corrects that a baseball hat, not a baseball bat, was found in the car.

NEW YORK —  Maziar Hashemi, a naturalized U.S. citizen who lives in Massachusetts, has been told by doctors that his best hope for surviving a rare form of blood cancer is a bone marrow transplant.

President Donald Trump’s travel ban could make that impossible.

Bone marrow transplants require a close match between donor and recipient. A few months after his diagnosis last September, Hashemi, 60, learned that his brother in Iran, Kamiar Hashemi,  was a rare 100-percent match. The only problem was Kamiar’s nationality.

The latest travel ban, issued as a presidential proclamation and implemented on December 8 after months of legal wrangling, bars most travelers to the United States from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, as well as certain government officials from Venezuela. Although the ban allows for case-by-case waivers to be granted, including for medical need, Kamiar Hashemi has so far been denied a visa.

Attorneys who regularly deal with visa issues say the waiver process is opaque. Visa applicants aren’t allowed to apply for waivers; they are simply granted or not without explanation. U.S. officials won't say how they make their decisions or how long they generally take.

A U.S. State Department official told Reuters that since the ban took effect, more than 375 waivers have been approved but he declined to say how many total visa applications have been filed from countries covered by the ban. He said he could not comment on the specifics of Hashemi’s case.

Kamiar Hashemi began the visa application process soon after learning he was a match for his brother. In February, the 57-year-old small business owner traveled to Armenia to be interviewed at the U.S. embassy there, since there is no embassy in Iran.

Later on the day of the interview, Kamiar’s brother back in Massachusetts checked the status of the application on the State Department's website. A pop-up window announced in bright blue letters: "Refused."

Waivers can later be granted to applicants initially refused for visas, according to the State Department, so Maziar Hashemi continued checking the website each day, but his brother’s status hasn’t changed. He hired an immigration lawyer, Mahsa Khanbabai, hoping she might smooth the way.

‘TRANSPARENT AS MUD’

The Trump administration has said travel restrictions are needed to protect the United States from terrorism.

Critics have challenged the latest ban, as they did previous versions, saying that it discriminates against Muslims. Six of the eight countries included in the current ban are majority Muslim.

Under the current proclamation, waivers can be granted in cases where denying entry would cause undue hardship, when the individual is found not to be a threat and when their entry is in the national interest.

The proclamation lists ten examples of situations in which an applicant might be eligible for a waiver. One reason mentioned is an applicant’s need for urgent medical care, something that comes close but doesn’t exactly fit the Hashemis’ situation, since it isn’t Kamiar Hashemi, himself, in urgent need.

The State Department has declined to provide details of how waiver decisions are made beyond some general answers to frequently asked questions posted on its website. But a State Department letter obtained by Reuters earlier this month said "there is no waiver form to be completed" and that applicants who fall into the categories outlined in the proclamation "must be considered" for one.

“The process is as transparent as mud,” said Hashemi’s attorney Khanbabai. “There are no clear guidelines. It’s difficult to figure out what the process is and who is actually doing the processing.”

Nevertheless, Khanbabai submitted a packet of information on the Hashemis’ behalf to the embassy on March 19, including a letter from Massachusetts General Hospital explaining that a perfect match for a bone marrow transplant is very rare and could provide the only viable treatment for Maziar Hashemi’s Myelodysplastic syndrome.

Worried about the ticking clock, Kamiar Hashemi looked into traveling to India to have his bone marrow harvested there and rushed to the United States, but that option was also thwarted.

A non-profit organization trying to facilitate the transfer, Be The Match, said it had to pull out after its legal team concluded that Kamiar’s bone marrow couldn’t be exported to the United States because of U.S. sanctions on Iranian exports.

"Can you imagine that the cells of an Iranian needed in order to help a U.S. citizen are embargoed?" said Maziar Hashemi, a civil engineer who has lived in the United States since the 1970s.

"It is just unfair," he said in a phone interview. "I cannot wait much longer."

(Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Editing by Sue Horton and Paul Thomasch)

Times Insider delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how news, features and opinion come together at The New York Times.

Recently, the people of the The New York Times Book Review, who consider thousands of books each year, wanted to highlight the wave of women writers taking literature in new and interesting directions.

The critics distilled what they were seeing into “The New Vanguard,” a list of 15 books included in a broader women-themed edition of the Sunday Book Review. The issue includes an interview with Tracy K. Smith, the poet laureate; a review from the entrepreneur Audrey Gelman about a new book on friendship; and an essay from the Times columnist Ginia Bellafante revisiting the work of feminist legal scholar Catherine MacKinnon. One goal of the section was to introduce readers to a range of ideas and writing from women. “The first idea we had was the word ‘Vanguard,’ because there was this sense that in lots of different ways there were things being done that were pioneering,” John Williams, a daily books editor for The Times, said.

But the critics Parul Sehgal, Jennifer Szalai and Dwight Garner wanted to create neither an exhaustive inventory nor a definitive one, which would suggest hard lines between ideas. Instead, they aimed to present notable titles that each exemplify a broader theme, and to encourage readers to consider them together — in the manner of a syllabus for a cutting-edge university course — in the hopes of conveying a sense of literary moment.

To develop the list, the critics sat down with Mr. Williams in a conference room at The Times’s Manhattan headquarters, armed with a giant spreadsheet of over 75 works. “The list was monstrous. It has to be,” Ms. Sehgal said.

As they whittled down the contenders, the team was surprised by the amount of agreement.

“These 15 women, as we sat down and hashed it out and fought it out, sort of stood out to us,” Ms. Sehgal said. “They’re writing about new subjects. They’re writing about old subjects in new ways. And somehow, they’re reinvigorating our sense of what’s possible on the page.”

For example, in “Americanah,” a novel by the author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, “She’s really telling us what immigration means now — where we go back and forth and we exist on the internet and we don’t fully leave the country of origin,” Ms. Sehgal said.

In the “Neapolitan” series of novels, by the author Elena Ferrante, “It really does seem to turn the idea of a certain kind of political novel inside out,” Ms. Sehgal said. And in the case of Carmen Maria Machado’s “Her Body and Other Parties,” her books are an “example of fairy tales and fantastical writing that’s tinged with sci-fi, but she really does update it, remix it. She makes these gorgeous queer love stories,” Ms. Sehgal explained.

Jessica Bennett, the gender editor at The Times, helped in the conception of the project. Ms. Bennett explained that the titles present female characters as we don’t often see them. “Each of these books is not only written by women but features a woman at the center, and these characters are nuanced and they span the gamut,” she said. “They’re smart and they’re grimy, and they’re imperfect, and I think it’s really important to showcase female characters that don’t all fit into one neat box.”

In particular, the group hopes “The New Vanguard” will inspire people to think about the different points of view and social critiques the books are involved in. Ms. Sehgal said a goal of the collection is to prompt certain questions: “Why is this story being told in this particular way by this particular person? What does it mean that we’re seeing it this way? And, who are these characters in books responding to? You know, books are always somewhat a little bit about other books, and so what are they pushing back at?”

In other words, the list of novels, like the authors and their characters, reflects a world with many moving parts. It is not an anointing; just a snapshot. “When I do look at this list now, it’s just blasphemous what’s not on there, you know?” Ms. Sehgal said. But, she added, “Consensus is so boring.”

When a law enforcement official described a cellphone recording left by the Austin serial bomber as "the outcry of a very challenged young man," the remark caused an outcry of its own.

Because the bomber was white, some people almost immediately questioned whether the same level of compassion would have been afforded a person of color.

"Here you have a case of a young white male who killed and injured people of color, and we're culturally more concerned about his story, about his life, about what led him to take these lives," said David Leonard, professor in the department of critical culture, gender and race studies at Washington State University. "It's a striking reminder of a racial empathy gap that persists."

For many observers and activists, the comments about Mark Anthony Conditt were just the latest example in which a white suspect seemed to receive an injection of humanity that is less often extended to blacks, Muslims and others.

Conditt kept the Texas capital in a state of fear for weeks, planting five bombs that killed two people and badly wounded four others. The 23-year-old community college dropout died Wednesday after setting off a bomb inside his SUV as police were about to arrest him.

Investigators said his motive was still unclear, despite the discovery of the 25-minute cellphone recording in which he talked about the bombs.

U.S. law has defined acts of violence or intimidation linked to foreign groups such as the Islamic State as terrorism. Homegrown extremist groups such as neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan have not been labeled that way, even if they've employed similar tactics.

Similarly, when Stephen Craig Paddock was identified as the gunman who rained bullets down on a Las Vegas concert last fall, the white retired accountant was characterized as a "lone wolf." That label has also been attached to other mass killers who acted alone, including Aurora, Colorado, movie theater shooter James Holmes, a white man who killed a dozen people in 2012.

On the recording, Conditt "does not at all mention anything about terrorism, nor does he mention anything about hate," Austin Police Chief Brian Manley said. "But instead, it is the outcry of a very challenged young man talking about challenges in his personal life that led him to this point."

The reaction on social media was swift.

"Remember how they talked about innocent black children" like Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice or Freddie Gray, tweeted Sherrilyn Ifill, president of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund.

"I believe passionately in acknowledging the humanity of those who commit even terrible crimes. Reading this police chief's empathy for this young white man highlights the awfulness — the plain awfulness — of the persistent refusal to extend this empathy to young black people," Ifill added.

Those young black males were described as "thugs" by some authorities and in popular discourse. Another case often cited is that of Michael Brown, an unarmed black 18-year-old fatally shot by a white officer in August 2014 in Ferguson, Missouri. The New York Times described Brown as "no angel" in a profile, a phrase that drew an angry response from readers and was criticized by its own public editor.

Brown got into a scuffle with then-officer Darren Wilson after Wilson yelled at Brown and a friend to get out of the street where they were walking. Wilson said that when he shot Brown, the teen was moving menacingly toward him. Some witnesses said Brown was surrendering.

The initial unrest erupted after Brown's body lay in the street for hours in the summer heat. More protests gripped the Missouri town after a grand jury in declined to charge Wilson, who later resigned. The Justice Department also cleared him, but an investigation by that agency uncovered patterns of racial bias and profiling in Ferguson's police and courts.

Some critics have also taken exception to media coverage that included Conditt's friends and family describing him as nerdy and kind.

"Language is always shot through with power dynamics. What this shows us is the way that we can talk about people determines how we can treat them," said Koritha Mitchell, an associate professor in the English department at Ohio State University. "Because we are determined to treat white men as citizens no matter what, to treat them as people who belong in the fold no matter what, that is the reason we will not use words like 'terrorist.'"

The Rev. Yvette Griffin, a black Detroit pastor, said blacks and Muslims don't seem to get the same presumption of innocence as other suspects.

"The words are kinder and gentler" for whites, she said.

___

Associated Press Writer Jeff Karoub in Detroit contributed to this report.

___

Deepti Hajela covers issues of race, ethnicity and immigration for The Associated Press. Follow her on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/dhajela . For more of her work, search for her name at https://apnews.com .

SAN DIEGO —  Congress gave President Donald Trump the $1.6 billion he wanted this year for his proposed "big, beautiful" border wall with Mexico but the headline number masks what he didn't get on one of his signature campaign promises. Here are some questions and answers about the wall's status:

WHAT DID TRUMP GET?

Trump got the $1.6 billion he sought for one year of funding but he wanted a long-term wall financing commitment.

In January, the administration proposed $25 billion over 10 years for the wall in a package that would have included a path to citizenship for 1.8 million young immigrants and sharp cuts to legal immigration. That effort failed.

Trump wanted to spend the $1.6 billion on 60 miles (96 kilometers) of new wall in Texas' Rio Grande Valley, the busiest corridor for illegal crossings, and 14 miles (22.4 kilometers) of replacement in San Diego.

Instead, he will get about 90 miles (144 kilometers) — more than what he sought — but the balance shifts more toward replacement wall than new miles and the money comes with strings attached.

WHAT DOES THE WALL LOOK LIKE NOW AND HOW WILL IT LOOK IN A YEAR?

Barriers currently blanket 654 miles (1,046 kilometers) of the 1,954-mile (3,126-kilometer) border. The bill will add about 33 miles (53 kilometers) in Rio Grande Valley, bringing the total to 687 miles (1,099 kilometers).

It allows 25 miles (40 kilometers) of new wall made of levees in Rio Grande Valley for $445 million. That's 3 miles (5 kilometers) less than what Trump wanted because Congress declared the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge in Texas off-limits to construction.

Congress is giving $196 million for new bollard-style barriers in Rio Grande Valley, which encompasses more than 300 miles (483 kilometers) of river and cities including Brownsville and McAllen on Texas' southern tip. That money is expected to add 8 miles (13 kilometers).

The bill sets aside $251 million to replace 14 miles (23 kilometers) in San Diego, just as Trump asked.

It also marks $445 million for other replacement barriers. The administration has not given mileage or locations, but it is expected to provide 45 miles (72 kilometers), which averages to about $10 million a mile (1.6 kilometers).

A recent replacement in the small town of Naco, Arizona, averaged just under $6 million a mile, and replacement work that began last month in the small city of Calexico, California, will cost about $8 million a mile.

The Government Accountability Office estimates that new wall costs an average of $6.5 million a mile, but terrain, building materials and other factors influence costs. The Rio Grande's winding waters and lush vegetation are more challenging for erecting walls than Arizona's flat deserts.

WHAT STRINGS ARE ATTACHED?

Aside from the construction ban in the Santa Ana Wildlife Refuge, the bill requires that wall construction this year sticks to existing designs that have proven effective. The administration had planned to issue bidding guidelines that draw on elements of eight prototypes that were completed in San Diego in October.

The prototypes — four made of concrete and four of see-through steel — are about 30 feet (9.1 meters) high, much taller than existing barriers. Trump visited the prototypes this month and has expressed preference for a see-through capability, heeding advice from senior Border Patrol officials.

Contracts for construction in Rio Grande Valley and San Diego have yet to be put out to bid but Trump promised quick action on the wall during a news conference Friday. Next year, the administration has requested $1.6 billion for 65 miles (104 kilometers) of new wall in Rio Grande Valley.

Trump's repeated insistence that Mexico pay for the wall has gained no traction with Mexico's leaders.

___

Mascaro reported from Washington.

A psychiatrist testified on Thursday that a nanny who fatally stabbed two small children in her care believed she was following a command from the Devil and was in the grip of psychosis so severe she could not understand her actions or recall them later.

“She wasn’t in her normal conscious state, where she could control her behavior,” the psychiatrist, Dr. Karen Rosenbaum, told jurors on her second day of testimony. “She was in a dissociative state and a psychotic state and wasn’t aware of her actions.”

Dr. Rosenbaum was the first of several expert witnesses expected to testify at the murder trial of the former nanny, Yoselyn Ortega, who has entered a plea of not responsible by reason of mental disease or defect.

Ms. Ortega, 55, is charged in State Supreme Court in Manhattan with two counts of first-degree murder for the deaths of Leo Krim, 2, and his sister Lucia, 6, on Oct. 25, 2012. If convicted, she faces life in prison. If found not responsible, she would be committed to a secure psychiatric facility.

To prevail with an insanity defense, Ms. Ortega’s lawyers must show she did not understand the consequences of her actions or know they were wrong.

Prosecutors, however, argue Ms. Ortega killed the children and tried to kill herself in a bathroom of the Krim’s Upper West Side apartment because she resented their mother and was overworked. They point out she had been deeply despondent and had told her sister to take care of her teenage son in the days before the killings. She also left her valuables at home that day.

Dr. Rosenbaum said Ms. Ortega had been having auditory and visual hallucinations, coupled with bouts of crippling depression, since she was a teenager in the Dominican Republic, but her illness was never diagnosed or treated.

Ms. Ortega told Dr. Rosenbaum in more than a dozen interviews that in the week before the murders she started hearing multiple voices, including a deep one she thought was Satan’s, telling her to kill herself and the Krim children, Dr. Rosenbaum said.

She claimed to have no memory of the grisly slayings; the police said she cut the little boy’s throat and stabbed the girl 30 times, using two kitchen knifes.

“She had been struggling against voices. For at least a week she was fighting against them,” Dr. Rosenbaum said. “They were screaming at her.”

The day of the killings, the last thing Ms. Ortega claimed to remember was taking Lucia home to use the bathroom, Dr. Rosenbaum said. The psychiatrist said at that moment, the “auditory hallucinations won over her and she went into an altered state of consciousness.”

Dr. Rosenbaum said psychosis was the only logical explanation for the murders, as Ms. Ortega had told her relatives she cared deeply for the children. “She loved the children,” she testified. “There is no reason she would want to hurt anybody other than the psychotic delusion she was experiencing.”

On cross-examination, the lead prosecutor, Stuart Silberg, forced Dr. Rosenbaum to acknowledge Ms. Ortega had never mentioned to anyone, even her closest relatives, that the Devil or other voices had told her to kill the children.

In the months leading up to the crime, Ms. Ortega had talked about feeling depressed, about hearing voices and about being followed by shadows and a “black man,” according to trial testimony. Yet it was not until months after the murders, when Dr. Rosenbaum interviewed her in a hospital, that Ms. Ortega said Satan had ordered her to kill the children.

“After the crime is when she starts telling you and other psychiatrists about how the Devil had been telling her to kill herself and the kids, correct?” Mr. Silberg asked. “Yes,” Dr. Rosenbaum replied.

Mr. Silberg also suggested that the number of wounds on the children told of a woman intent on killing, just as her two self-inflicted neck wounds proved she tried hard to end her own life. He said the evidence suggested “an intentional, thoughtful act.”

WASHINGTON — In the final months of the Obama administration, the Justice Department announced a new approach to preparing prisoners for life beyond their cells. Officials created a prison school system, pledged money for technology training and promised to help prevent former inmates from returning to prison.

Almost immediately after taking office, Trump administration officials began undoing their work. Budgets were slashed, the school system was scrapped and studies were shelved as Attorney General Jeff Sessions brought to bear his tough-on-crime philosophy and deep skepticism of Obama-era crime-fighting policies.

Now, nearly a year and a half later, the White House has declared that reducing recidivism and improving prisoner education is a top priority — echoing some of the very policies it helped dismantle.

This whiplash approach to federal prison policy reflects the tension between Jared Kushner, the president’s reform-minded son-in-law and senior adviser, and Mr. Sessions, a hard-liner whose views on criminal justice were forged at the height of the drug war. It has left both Democratic and Republican lawmakers confused and has contributed to skepticism that the Trump administration is serious about its own proposals.

On Capitol Hill, a wholesale reconsideration of American sentencing laws and prison policies has bipartisan support. Dozens of senators have sponsored a bill to change mandatory-minimum sentences and ease drug laws that have been used to seek lengthy sentences for nonviolent offenders. The bill also includes provisions to expand education, worker training and drug rehabilitation programs in prison.

Mr. Kushner, administration officials say, supports such sweeping change. Mr. Sessions is adamantly opposed. The two men reached a compromise in recent months: Mr. Kushner could push for the prison changes, but Mr. Sessions would position the administration strongly against a broader overhaul.

In a letter to Congress last month, Mr. Sessions excoriated the bill, predicting it “would reduce sentences for a highly dangerous cohort of criminals, including repeat dangerous drug traffickers and those who use firearms.”

The letter enraged the Senate Judiciary Committee’s Republican chairman, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa. Twenty-five senators, split nearly evenly between the two parties, have sponsored his bill, which reform advocates in both parties regard as the best chance to undo the strict laws that contribute to the United States containing the world’s largest prison population.

Mr. Sessions promised last fall that he would work with the Senate to address those laws. “We’ve never had any dialogue since,” said Mr. Grassley, one of Mr. Trump’s most important Capitol Hill allies during his first year in office. “I resent the president not helping me more, when I worked so hard to push along his judicial nominees.”

Instead, the White House is backing Mr. Kushner’s push to overhaul just prisons. “We can change the way the country thinks about prison and the job of prisons in this country,” he said during an interview in the West Wing. “I think that will save a lot of lives.”

The White House released seven principles it hopes to see in legislation. Some are specific, like expanding job-training programs in prison. Others are purely generic: “Effectively use government resources to reduce crime, enhance public safety and increase opportunity, thereby improving the lives of all Americans.”

Mr. Kushner’s father served prison time for tax evasion, witness tampering and making illegal campaign donations. His son has convinced advocates for an overhaul, even those who are not natural allies, that he personally cares about the issue.

“I do believe that Jared Kushner is earnest in his desire for criminal justice reform,” said Inimai M. Chettiar, of the liberal-leaning Brennan Center for Justice. “But Jeff Sessions is still stuck in 1980. He hasn’t moved along with everyone else, including top prosecutors and police chiefs, who realize that tough-on-crime doesn’t work.”

Ms. Chettiar said she was not convinced that Mr. Kushner’s support was enough to get the administration behind real change — even in the narrow area of prisons.

The Justice Department said Mr. Sessions fully supported the White House principles and was committed to helping inmates develop the skills needed to return to society. But Mr. Sessions is not rushing to promote those efforts: Over two weeks, the Justice Department refused to make anyone available to discuss them and would not identify which prison education programs have been cut and which remain.

“They’re not going to talk to you about this,” said Joe Rojas, a teacher at the federal prison complex in Coleman, Fla. He said the Justice Department could not answer those questions without acknowledging that the Trump administration had cut more than 6,000 prison jobs.

Staffing is so short that teachers around the country are regularly reassigned to cover routine guard duties, he said.

One of the White House priorities is to offer incentives to encourage inmates to enroll in programs to prepare them for life outside prison. Mr. Rojas and others are quick to note that incentives are not the problem: Educational programs are so popular that more than 15,000 federal inmates are on waiting lists for high school equivalency diploma and literacy programs, according to a 2016 Justice Department report.

“It sounds pretty on paper,” said Mr. Rojas, who is the president of his American Federation of Government Employees union local. “But when you cut staff, you can’t do anything.”

Administration officials say it is unfair to view the White House initiative through a lens of what has been cut. Mr. Kushner got involved only after those cuts were made. As for broader overhaul efforts, he has made his case to advocates that it is better to address prison problems than do nothing.

And some longtime advocates agree, even if begrudgingly. Koch Industries, for example, lobbied hard for sweeping criminal justice changes, including more lenient sentencing. But Mark Holden, the group’s general counsel, said he saw an opportunity to improve prisons — even if it was not everything advocates wanted.

“This is something that pretty much everyone agrees with, so let’s start where there’s a consensus and build,” he said.

Mr. Grassley said that he while appreciated Mr. Kushner’s desire to get something done, he did not support any effort to try to address prisons without fixing what he saw as fundamental unfairness in sentencing laws. And he believes Mr. Kushner shares his views. “But he sees a chance of getting half a loaf, and he’s willing to settle for a half a loaf,” Mr. Grassley said. “I’m not going to.”

The White House argues that Mr. Grassley’s argument is moot because the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, will not allow a vote on a broad criminal justice bill that divides Republicans.

Mr. Grassley sees that as an excuse. “If the president would start tweeting about it every other day like he tweets about everything else, McConnell would come along,” he said.

Mr. Kushner believes that the White House can forge consensus around prison reform. He wants the federal government to look to states for proven ideas to reduce recidivism. The White House recently hired Brooke Rollins, a conservative lawyer who advocated such changes in Texas, a state that is often held up by both conservatives and liberals as a leader in reducing recidivism.

Amy Lopez, a former teacher in the Texas prison system, agreed that the federal government could learn from states. More data exists than ever before, she said, and it shows that education reduces the chance that a former inmate will be arrested again.

The Justice Department hired Ms. Lopez in 2016 to replace the patchwork prison education system with a centralized school district that offered diplomas, technology training and vocational education.

“It was interesting to have this focus at the federal level on education,” she said. “That was new.”

Within months, she was fired, the school system axed. She took a job overseeing education in Washington’s city corrections system.

Trump administration officials say that, as part of the new focus on prisons, if the school idea turns out to have been a good one, they can always reconsider it.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. 

Kim Jong-un’s power play, a French march against hate and a Balkan design facepalm. Here’s the latest:

• Confident, reasonable — willing to bargain.

That’s how North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, came across in his debut as a global statesman — and he did so with a dash of mystery. Here’s how the Chinese and the North Korean news media portrayed the meeting with President Xi Jinping.

Mr. Kim’s two-day visit — his first known trip abroad since taking power — was a reminder of how much he has set the agenda in the North Korean nuclear crisis and, our correspondent writes, what a strong hand he has going into negotiations.

President Trump was quick to chime in. He posted on Twitter that Mr. Xi told him that the meeting went “very well” and that Mr. Kim “looks forward to his meeting with me.”

_____

• “In France, we kill grandmothers because they’re Jewish.”

Condemning anti-Semitic violence, thousands marched through Paris to honor Mireille Knoll, above, an 85-year-old Holocaust survivor who was murdered in her apartment last week.

She was stabbed 11 times and partly burned, and a neighbor is one of the suspects. He reportedly said “God is great” in Arabic during the killing, which the authorities have labeled a hate crime, renewing concerns about a persistent strain of anti-Semitism in France.

_____

• The British authorities said that a poisoned former Russian spy and his daughter, who are at the epicenter of a diplomatic crisis between Russia and the West, had been sickened by a nerve agent on the front door of his house, above, in the cathedral town of Salisbury, England.

The announcement narrows the possibilities of how the victims came into contact with Novichok, a lethal toxin developed by Soviet scientists.

Separately, outrage continues to mount in Russia as funerals began for the 64 victims of a deadly shopping mall fire in the Siberian city of Kemerovo.

_____

• A lawyer for President Trump broached the idea of pardoning two of his former top advisers, Michael Flynn and Paul Manafort, with their attorneys last year, according to people with knowledge of the talks. But the lawyer, John Dowd, who resigned last week, denied it.

Yet the special investigation into Mr. Trump’s ties to Russia continues to gain steam. The U.S. special counsel released a document showing that Rick Gates, a top Trump campaign official, had repeated communications with a business associate tied to Russian intelligence during the final weeks of the 2016 presidential election.

Meanwhile, Mr. Trump has chosen his personal physician, Ronny L. Jackson, above, as the new secretary of veterans affairs, replacing David Shulkin. (Finding it hard to keep track of all the Trump administration turnover? Here’s a handy breakdown.)

_____

• A capital of kitsch. 

An ambitious building project in Skopje, the capital of Macedonia, was intended to evoke an ancient past.

But $750 million, hundreds of new statues and three pirate ships later, the remodeling has become a cautionary tale of Balkan nationalism gone wild.

_____

• Is your waiter rude, or just French?

Few cultural stereotypes are more pervasive than the surly French garçon. That perception was even used as a defense in a recent wrongful termination suit in Canada.

In the lawsuit, a French waiter who was fired for being combative and aggressive said his former bosses were discriminating against his culture and heritage. (Above, a waiter at a restaurant in Paris.)

• Boeing was hit by a cyberattack that some executives say used the same ransomware that struck thousands of computer systems in more than 70 countries last year.

• President Trump wants to remake global trade in a matter of months. Here’s how he’s trying to do it.

• A top Morgan Stanley broker was repeatedly accused of violence against his ex-wives and girlfriends. Bank managers were told. But he kept his job.

• Facebook will introduce a centralized system for its users to control their privacy and security settings in response to an outcry over the way it has handled personal data.

• An advertising group that gave Cambridge Analytica a gold prize for its work for the Trump campaign is now urging marketers to reconsider the ethics of how consumer information is collected. (It has yet to rescind the award.)

• Saudi Arabia may be changing, but the sudden postponement of its first fashion week suggests bumps in the road.

• U.S. stocks were mixed. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• In Egypt, it’s $3 a vote. With no real challenger in this week’s election, President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi is cajoling, coercing and even paying voters to ensure a credible turnout. Above, a woman with a photo of Mr. Sisi in Cairo. [The New York Times]

• Ecuador  cut off internet access — again — for Julian Assange, who lives in the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. The government cited concerns that he was harming the country’s international relationships on social media. [The New York Times]

• Just in time for summer, Ireland will be getting its first official nude beach. [BBC]

• Immigration has helped bump Germany’s birthrate to its highest in decades. [Politico]

• Pope Francis rejected calls to apologize for the Roman Catholic Church’s role in a Canadian school system that tried to eliminate Indigenous culture. Many native students were sexually and physically abused by priests and nuns. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Recipe of the day: If you’re looking for big flavor, a chicken tagine is just what you need.

• Being a wedding guest can get pricey. Here’s how to cut costs.

• Have a tiny apartment? These are the best cleaning tools for a small space.

• In Cambodia, ethnic Vietnamese live in floating villages, above, spread across the Mekong River, a symbol of their perpetually adrift status in Cambodian society.

• An ancient guide: In Rome, you can actually map a 2,000-year-old eyewitness account of history onto the modern urban landscape.

• In memoriam: Liam O’Flynn, 72, a master Irish piper who “could move your heart” with the most difficult instrument to play in the arsenal of Irish music.

• A landmark ruling in Israel allows babies to be conceived from frozen embryos or sperm of people who have died. But is it ethical?

On this day in 1961, the 23rd Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was approved by the required three-fourths of the states, giving Washingtonians the right to vote for president and vice president for the first time in more than 160 years.

“The United States finally gave its capital the vote today,” The Times noted on its front page, with a hint of impatience.

The amendment granted representation to the District of Columbia in the Electoral College, where states are given electors based on population. Although the District’s population (estimated around 700,000 in 2017) is larger than that of some states, it is given no more electors than the least populous state, which is currently Wyoming.

At the time, the push to give the vote to the district, with its large African-American population, became caught up in the civil rights movement. The amendment was opposed in the South, where Tennessee was the only state to ratify it.

Democrats have since been able to count on the district’s three electoral votes, which have been cast for each of the party’s presidential candidates, starting with Lyndon Johnson in 1964.

Although the district’s residents have a say at the White House, they lack a full voice in Congress, where their representative does not have full voting rights.

Chris Stanford contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online.

Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)

Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

ATLANTA —  Women running for governor in Wisconsin and Maryland breastfeed their infants in campaign videos. Another in Georgia tells voters that "the folks who have held the office of governor don't look like me."

The record number of women expected to run for office this year are already breaking barriers, upending traditional campaigning by emphasizing their gender as they introduce themselves to an electorate they hope is eager for change.

"Some say no man can beat Larry Hogan," Maryland Democratic candidate Krish Vignarajah says into the camera as she breastfeeds her daughter. "Well, I'm no man. I'm a mom, I'm a woman, and I want to be your next governor."

Experts are predicting a historic wave of female candidates, driven in part by Democrats frustrated over the election of President Donald Trump and actions by his administration and Republicans in Congress on issues such as health care and immigration. The Women's March, the #MeToo movement and the surprising success of women running for the Virginia Legislature in 2017 have kept the momentum.

Vignarajah, a lawyer and former policy director for Michelle Obama, is one of seven Democrats and the only woman running in the Maryland gubernatorial primary. She said the 2016 presidential election was a "rude awakening of what happens when we become complacent" and that her video was designed to show the everyday life of many moms.

"Historically speaking, women were perhaps more hesitant to highlight their womanhood," said Vignarajah, a Sri Lankan immigrant. "For me, I think it's an asset."

The candidates say their message to voters is that electing more women to office is not merely about representation. It's about a change in priorities so that more emphasis is placed on issues such as education, health care, early childhood development, workplace equality and paid family leave.

"I would like our state to be the best place to raise a family and the best place to grow a business, and I think we can achieve that," said Kelda Roys, a former state lawmaker seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a two-term Republican.

In her ad, Roys highlights her efforts in the state legislature to ban the chemical known as BPA from baby bottles and cups in the state. In the middle of her speech, her youngest daughter begins crying and Roys discreetly lifts her sweater to begin breastfeeding. Roys says she didn't intend to have that moment as part of the video but realized after she saw an initial outtake that it made sense.

"This is part of who I am, and I think it's an honest portrayal of what my life is like," Roys said. "Men running for office have always enjoyed pretty wide latitude to present themselves as whole people, where for women there has always been pressure to conform to a pretty narrow archetype. And I feel like that's changing."

Whether all this enthusiasm translates into a sea change in the number of women elected to office remains to be seen. Currently, women account for a fifth of all U.S. representatives and senators, and one in four state lawmakers. There are six female governors.

So far, 220 women have filed to run for the U.S. House or Senate this year, with candidate filing deadlines still pending in half the states, according to the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. The record is 334 female candidates set in 2012. The center's experts say nearly 500 women are expected to run for House and Senate this year.

"For women, the expectations of gender and candidacies have often conflicted," said Kelly Dittmar, an assistant professor of political science at Rutgers. "They spent a lot of time talking about how tough they are, how strong they are and how qualified they are to hold office."

But female candidates have grown more comfortable in recent years branching out, Dittmar said. In New Hampshire's hotly contested U.S. Senate race in 2016, both Republican Kelly Ayotte and Democrat Maggie Hassan highlighted their roles as mothers and featured their children prominently in ads. Ayotte's daughter narrated a campaign ad highlighting her mom's credentials.

Some of this year's ads are intensely personal. Before losing her primary bid for Illinois' 4th Congressional District, Democratic candidate Sol Flores spoke about how she fought off a sexual predator as a child and how she has dedicated her life to helping children at risk.

Katie Hill, one of several Democrats seeking to challenge Rep. Steve Knight in California's 25th Congressional District, has a nearly five-minute video on her website detailing the time when she was 19 years old and considered having an abortion before suffering a miscarriage.

"No one can really understand what it's like to be faced with that kind of a choice, and it's a decision that only a woman in that situation can make," Hill says in the video. "The government most certainly can't make it for her."

In a recent video, Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Evans is shown walking the halls of the state Capitol holding hands with her young daughter as she prepares to file paperwork to qualify for the Democratic primary in May. The daughter of a single mother who grew up poor in rural Georgia, Evans says her top priorities are making sure children of all backgrounds have access to quality early childhood education, a strong public school system and financial support for college.

"I don't have to worry about my daughter being taken care of during the day, but a lot of mothers have that struggle," Evans said. "I want to make sure that all families have access to the resources they need to live a high-quality life and to go out and be successful."

___

Associated Press writer Courtney Columbus in Baltimore contributed to this report.

___

Follow Christina Almeida Cassidy on Twitter at http://twitter.com/AP_Christina.

ATLANTA —  Women running for governor in Wisconsin and Maryland breastfeed their infants in campaign videos. Another in Georgia tells voters that "the folks who have held the office of governor don't look like me."

The record number of women expected to run for office this year are already breaking barriers, upending traditional campaigning by emphasizing their gender as they introduce themselves to an electorate they hope is eager for change.

"Some say no man can beat Larry Hogan," Maryland Democratic candidate Krish Vignarajah says into the camera as she breastfeeds her daughter. "Well, I'm no man. I'm a mom, I'm a woman, and I want to be your next governor."

Experts are predicting a historic wave of female candidates, driven in part by Democrats frustrated over the election of President Donald Trump and actions by his administration and Republicans in Congress on issues such as health care and immigration. The Women's March, the #MeToo movement and the surprising success of women running for the Virginia Legislature in 2017 have kept the momentum.

Vignarajah, a lawyer and former policy director for Michelle Obama, is one of seven Democrats and the only woman running in the Maryland gubernatorial primary. She said the 2016 presidential election was a "rude awakening of what happens when we become complacent" and that her video was designed to show the everyday life of many moms.

"Historically speaking, women were perhaps more hesitant to highlight their womanhood," said Vignarajah, a Sri Lankan immigrant. "For me, I think it's an asset."

The candidates say their message to voters is that electing more women to office is not merely about representation. It's about a change in priorities so that more emphasis is placed on issues such as education, health care, early childhood development, workplace equality and paid family leave.

"I would like our state to be the best place to raise a family and the best place to grow a business, and I think we can achieve that," said Kelda Roys, a former state lawmaker seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a two-term Republican.

In her ad, Roys highlights her efforts in the state legislature to ban the chemical known as BPA from baby bottles and cups in the state. In the middle of her speech, her youngest daughter begins crying and Roys discreetly lifts her sweater to begin breastfeeding. Roys says she didn't intend to have that moment as part of the video but realized after she saw an initial outtake that it made sense.

"This is part of who I am, and I think it's an honest portrayal of what my life is like," Roys said. "Men running for office have always enjoyed pretty wide latitude to present themselves as whole people, where for women there has always been pressure to conform to a pretty narrow archetype. And I feel like that's changing."

Whether all this enthusiasm translates into a sea change in the number of women elected to office remains to be seen. Currently, women account for a fifth of all U.S. representatives and senators, and one in four state lawmakers. There are six female governors.

So far, 220 women have filed to run for the U.S. House or Senate this year, with candidate filing deadlines still pending in half the states, according to the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University. The record is 334 female candidates set in 2012. The center's experts say nearly 500 women are expected to run for House and Senate this year.

"For women, the expectations of gender and candidacies have often conflicted," said Kelly Dittmar, an assistant professor of political science at Rutgers. "They spent a lot of time talking about how tough they are, how strong they are and how qualified they are to hold office."

But female candidates have grown more comfortable in recent years branching out, Dittmar said. In New Hampshire's hotly contested U.S. Senate race in 2016, both Republican Kelly Ayotte and Democrat Maggie Hassan highlighted their roles as mothers and featured their children prominently in ads. Ayotte's daughter narrated a campaign ad highlighting her mom's credentials.

Some of this year's ads are intensely personal. Before losing her primary bid for Illinois' 4th Congressional District, Democratic candidate Sol Flores spoke about how she fought off a sexual predator as a child and how she has dedicated her life to helping children at risk.

Katie Hill, one of several Democrats seeking to challenge Rep. Steve Knight in California's 25th Congressional District, has a nearly five-minute video on her website detailing the time when she was 19 years old and considered having an abortion before suffering a miscarriage.

"No one can really understand what it's like to be faced with that kind of a choice, and it's a decision that only a woman in that situation can make," Hill says in the video. "The government most certainly can't make it for her."

In a recent video, Georgia gubernatorial candidate Stacey Evans is shown walking the halls of the state Capitol holding hands with her young daughter as she prepares to file paperwork to qualify for the Democratic primary in May. The daughter of a single mother who grew up poor in rural Georgia, Evans says her top priorities are making sure children of all backgrounds have access to quality early childhood education, a strong public school system and financial support for college.

"I don't have to worry about my daughter being taken care of during the day, but a lot of mothers have that struggle," Evans said. "I want to make sure that all families have access to the resources they need to live a high-quality life and to go out and be successful."

___

Associated Press writer Courtney Columbus in Baltimore contributed to this report.

___

Follow Christina Almeida Cassidy on Twitter at http://twitter.com/AP_Christina.

Damien Cave, our Australia bureau chief, shares insights on Australia, news of the world and reader feedback in this weekly newsletter. Want it by email? Sign up.

______

I’m in rural Victoria this week reporting on immigration — part of our effort to explore Australia’s multicultural present and future — and I have to say, now I get why so many of you urged me to get out of the cities and into the country.

This isn’t my first trip to regional Australia, and let’s put aside the “real Australia” argument; in my book, cities and towns are both reflections of national character.

But just as dinner parties are different with six guests rather than 60, towns with a few hundred people do have a lot to teach about human interaction and how a country really works.

In my experience, towns of the singular — one market, one intersection — tend to produce a few things in abundance. Questions are among them. Visiting reporters rarely get too far without being asked about their plans, and within a day or so, word gets around.

If you’re deemed trustworthy, introductions are made, phone numbers are shared and people just appear to tell their stories.

Pubs help.

Here in Pyramid Hill, we arrived and dropped our bags in a couple of rooms at the Victoria Hotel around 3 p.m. on Monday. A few hours later, the local mayor stopped by for a chat and a beer on her way home from work.

The local footy coach sat at the other end of the bar, beneath fading photos from decades past, and thanks to David Demaine, our friendly publican, I quickly discovered that the coach was married to the principal of the local public school, Pyramid Hill College.

She appeared a few minutes later, not just at the pub, but at my table.

No wonder writers love these kinds of towns.

E.B. White, who inspired me as a child with “Charlotte’s Web” and again as a young reporter with his signature essay, “Here is New York,” lived on a farm in rural Maine for 48 years.

Tim Winton, even as he promotes a new novel called “The Shepherd’s Hut,” still deliberately avoids telling anyone where he can be found in Western Australia to preserve the peace and quiet of his coastal community.

And then there’s Gerald Murnane, the Australian literary savant who has landed in Goroke, a stretch of remote Victoria a few hours from where I am.

I’m half tempted to try to make the trip after reading this week’s fantastic profile of him in The New York Times Magazine. With minimal effort, I imagine I could find a way to fit in at the men’s shed where he and a bunch of other retirees spend a lot of time tinkering and talking.

The shed reminded me a bit of the Op Shop here. (For the non-Aussies, that’s a vintage store, the “opportunity shop,” which sells donated goods, in this case to benefit the local nursing home.)

I stopped in Tuesday afternoon and bought three antique port glasses from a couple of older volunteers who were mending dresses for some Filipino girls at the local Catholic school.

Each glass cost me … go on, guess.

Try 20 cents.

The woman who sold them to me wrapped them carefully in gray paper to ensure they made it back to Sydney, and as we chatted about how the town was changing with the influx of Filipinos (more on that in a future story), I started to wonder what else I might buy.

There was a big “for sale” sign out in front of the pub.

My room was comfortable and clean. The place had good bones, solid wood floors, lots of space and decent water pressure.

Would it be weird for The New York Times to buy into a piece of regional Australian life? Would it even be possible?

Probably not. But in a place this friendly and quiet, it’s a ribbon of thought that keeps twirling.

Now for the week’s reads … and a call for your recommendations about what to listen to, read or watch to better understand regional Australia.

Share your ideas in our Facebook group or by emailing nytaustralia@nytimes.com — and tell your friends to sign up for this newsletter and send their suggestions too!

______

Australians often ask me why Americans are so obsessed with guns, but what we’re witnessing now is a historic push in the other direction.

Last Saturday, vast crowds of demonstrators gathered across the United States to protest gun violence. It was a triumph of organic, youthful grass-roots energy and sophisticated, experienced organizational muscle.

In one poignant moment, Emma González, a survivor of last month’s shooting in Parkland, Fla., read the names of the victims before staring ahead for 4 minutes and 26 seconds to convey the length of the attack.

You can see dispatches from our reporters on the ground and analysis of what this means for the future of gun policy in the U.S., here.

______

Who is Stormy Daniels?

Read about her life and reputation — starting back when she was just Stephanie Clifford, a Floridian with ambition — before she took on her pornographic stage name, and long before she shook Washington with her claims to have had an affair with President Trump.

Then read about how she’s out-Trumping Trump, according to our TV critic.

______

Lots of things are signs of status: cars, handbags, shoes, watches. And fish — the ones that get plastic surgery.

“The idea of cosmetic surgery for a fish may sound extreme,” Amy Qin writes in her story from Singapore. “But the Asian arowana is not your average pet store fish. Known as the long yu, or ‘dragon fish’ in Chinese, it reigns as one of the world’s most expensive aquarium fish, selling for anywhere from a few hundred dollars to tens of thousands of dollars.”

______

In-Depth

• Is the Next Nobel Laureate in Literature Tending Bar in a Dusty Australian Town?: With the publication of two new books, Gerald Murnane might finally find an American audience.

• Drilling the Great Australian Bight: Hoping for Jobs, but Fearing a Spill: A plan to extract natural gas in “Australia’s Galápagos” could bolster the economy, but the fishing and tourism industries say it’s not worth the risk.

News

• Scores of Russians Expelled by U.S. and Its Allies Over U.K. Poisoning: At least 22 other nations, including Australia and the U.S., backed Britain in expelling Russian officials.

• Astonishing Admission of Cheating Rocks Australian Cricket: Senior players schemed to tamper with the ball during a series in South Africa, a revelation that has stunned a sport that prides itself on fair play.

• A First in Flight: Australia to the U.K., in 17 Hours: Qantas calls its first direct, nonstop Dreamliner flight from Perth to London a “game changer.”

• 150 Whales Beached in Australia, as Rescuers Fight to Save Them: Poor weather and the threat of sharks were hindering emergency efforts.

For Fun

• How Much Do You Know About New Zealand? A quiz for our country of the week (New Zealanders will obviously have the upper hand).

• The 5 Most-Read ‘Modern Love’ Columns in Australia: You read them, we compiled them. Here are Australia’s favorite essays on love, in all its delightful and dark nuance.

• Welcome to the Neighborhood: After enduring the struggle to buy a home, a multicultural crowd of friends gathers for a Hindu celebration.

______

• All the President’s Thugs: Stormy Daniels said she was physically threatened after selling her story of a sexual liaison with Donald Trump. It rings all too true, writes the Times editorial board.

• I Tried to Befriend Nikolas Cruz. He Still Killed My Friends: A student says the notion that the recent Parkland, Fla., shootings wouldn’t have occurred if students had been kinder is deeply dangerous.

• Are You Really in Love if It’s Not on Instagram?: Why do people perform their relationships online? Who is it for? Krista Burton on #weekiversaries.

• Sanctuaries of Silence: A virtual-reality video about discovering quiet in an ever-noisier world.

______

… And You Recommend?

This week, as I prepare to write about Pyramid Hill and other small towns, I’m looking for suggestions: Share your favorite movies, songs, books, essays or photographs that go deep toward understanding rural, regional Australia.

All suggestions, big or small, are welcome. As are stories and tales of your own.

You know how to find me: nytaustralia@nytimes.com. Thank you!

Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

As you walk into the room at University of California, Irvine the first thing you notice are the fruit and vegetable baskets: apples, onions, broccoli. There’s a table of students chatting and eating, while one thumbs through a cookbook.

It’s called the Basic Needs Hub — a space for anyone on campus who needs something to eat. It looks like a miniature gourmet grocery, but it is, effectively, a food pantry.

For the last six months, the doors to the hub have been wide open, and the pantry has doled out produce, meat and granola bars, among other goods. Students are not required to show any proof of income to receive the food, though they do receive a document stating that it is meant for those who cannot afford it on their own.

“We are making it O.K. for students to say that they do need help,” said Edgar Dormitorio, the assistant vice chancellor of students affairs. “We know there are students who do without meals rather ask for assistance. We want this to be as low barrier as possible.”

A 2016 study found that roughly four in 10 students in the University of California system went hungry at least some of the time. At the Basic Needs Hub, students are asked for basic demographic information, like where they live and what year they are in college.

“Our hope is we know the needs better and cater to those needs,” he said.

The pantry is paid for in part by a $3 fee students approved in a campuswide vote last year, as well as money set aside from the office of U.C. system’s president.

“For students, knowing there is somewhere to get your food and feel dignified doing that, it is an empowering thing,” said Ernest Devin Rankin, 19, a sophomore in public health policy and educational science, who works at the pantry part time. “We have frozen meat, eggs, bread, milk, cereal — all that goes quickly. Fruit, granola bars, that stuff goes out in a second, we can’t stock it fast enough.”

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)

• “These eagles are more than just a symbol.” How a group of volunteers participate in an expedition to count bald eagles in Southern California. [The New York Times]

• The Orange County Sheriff’s Department is now making release dates of anyone in jail publicly available online, including those living in the country illegally. The move is a rejection of the state’s so-called sanctuary state laws, which strictly limit how local law enforcement officers communicate with federal immigration agents. [The Los Angeles Times]

• One legislative leader is scoffing at the idea of advancing a single-payer public health insurance system this year and instead proposing his own, more narrow approach, to universal coverage. [The Sacramento Bee]

• The California attorney general, Xavier Becerra, is once again suing the Trump administration, this time over questions about citizenship on the 2020 census form. [San Francisco Chronicle]

• “We’re all in the ghetto now.” One writer sees parallels between the distorted reality of Inglewood and South Los Angeles and the way the state of California is now perceived in Trump’s America. [The New York Times]

• With rents soaring throughout the state, activists in several cities are pushing for local ballot measures to enact rent control. Advocates for renters say the state has reached a “breaking point.” [Orange County Register]

• San Francisco may look like a boomtown, but it turns out people are leaving. In the last two years, more people left the Bay Area than moved into it, raising questions about the sustainability of growth there. [The Wall Street Journal]

• A chile vendor who owes her landlord nearly $100,000 is struggling to hold on to her spot in L.A.’s Grand Central Market, where many stalls sell high-end food to an increasingly younger clientele. [The Los Angeles Times]

• No, those unsightly dark brown spots covering King Tut’s tomb are not getting worse, researchers at the Getty Conservation Institute said this week. But they are here to stay. [The New York Times]

• Maybe we should turn to the students to help fix the state’s finance system? They are the ones who see how bad it truly is. [Zocalo]

• A decade ago, Janet was a drug and alcohol counselor, as well as a married homeowner. Today, she is living on the streets of Fresno, addicted to methamphetamine, which she says helps her stay awake and safe. [The Fresno Bee]

• Join us: Discuss the state of dining in California with three powerhouse chefs in Los Angeles on April 10 at 7 p.m. Melissa Clark, the New York Times food writer and cookbook author, moderates a discussion with some of Los Angeles’s leading chefs — Jessica Koslow, owner of Sqirl; Niki Nakayama, chef and owner of n/naka; and Susan Feniger, TV personality, chef and co-owner of Border Grill restaurants — about the future of American restaurants, the impact of the #MeToo movement in kitchens and the evolving meaning of California cuisine. Visit timesevents.nytimes.com/LAdining for tickets and details.

Who needs televised freeway chases? They’ve been replaced — at least temporarily — by migrating whales. For hours on Monday, two gray whales swam through the river channel separating Long Beach and Seal Beach, with crowds growing as the morning wore on. The cameras were just behind.

There were no signs of distress, experts said, though many bystanders worried that the 25-foot-long whales would get stuck in the shallow water. Whale sightings are common near the shore this time of year, as the whales head north for their annual migration. Scientists who watched the footage said they would most likely return to the ocean later today.

California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

SAN DIEGO —  The U.S. and Mexican governments are sparring over immigration and trade, but the two countries are joining forces on the high seas like never before to go after drug smugglers.

The United States, Mexico and Colombia will target drug smugglers off South America's Pacific coast in an operation that is scheduled to begin Sunday and last for the foreseeable future, Coast Guard officials told The Associated Press.

U.S. Coast Guard Adm. Paul F. Zukunft teased the idea during a recent defense conference in San Diego, saying the United States "can't do it alone."

"It's no secret we are besieged with the flow of drugs from Latin America to the United States," he said.

U.S. and Mexican forces have routinely worked together at sea, but the latest effort "marks a significant step in terms of information sharing, collaboration and cooperation between the United States, Mexico and other partner nations," according to the Coast Guard.

The Americans and Mexicans will exchange intelligence more freely than in the past, which could mean sharing information on well-traveled routes for drug smugglers or preferred paths for specific smuggling organizations, Coast Guard spokeswoman Alana Miller said.

They will also board the other country's vessels to view operations and gain expertise, Miller said. In 2015, three members of the Mexican navy boarded a Coast Guard vessel during a port call in Huatulco, Mexico, but this operation calls for more frequent exchanges, and they will be at sea.

The operation will last "for the foreseeable future as long as it's working for everyone," Miller said. "It's sort of open-ended."

Traffickers over the years have increasingly turned to the sea to move their illegal goods, traversing an area off South America that is so big, the continental United States could be dropped inside. Smugglers routinely move cocaine out of countries like Colombia to Central America and Mexico via fishing boats, skiffs, commercial cargo ships — even homemade submarines.

The operation comes after five years of record seizures by the Coast Guard. But U.S. officials say because of limited resources, the U.S. military's smallest service still catches only about 25 percent of illegal shipments in the Pacific.

Even so, the Coast Guard annually seizes three times the amount of cocaine confiscated at the U.S.-Mexico border. Yet ocean smuggling has not grabbed lawmakers' attention like the flow of drugs across the nearly 2,000-mile-long (3,200-kilometer-long) land border, where the Trump administration wants to spend billions to build a continuous wall.

As much as 20 percent of the cocaine moving through South America ends up in the United States, and most of it lands first in Mexico from seafaring smugglers. The hope is boats will be stopped before their shipments are loaded onto Mexican trucks that fan out on various routes bound for the U.S. border, authorities said. Large boats can cart 20 tons (18 metric tons) of cocaine or more.

Mexico has historically been among the Latin American countries that are most reluctant to join operations with the U.S., which can be traced back to the Mexican-American War that was fought 170 years ago. The United States cannot open military bases in Mexico, and U.S. officials, for instance, cannot venture into Mexican waters without prior permission, even if they are chasing drug vessels.

The Coast Guard now stops its pursuit and alerts Mexican authorities if suspicious boats cross into their territorial waters.

It's unclear whether this new cooperation will affect those restrictions.

Treaties with nations such as Colombia have allowed U.S. authorities more latitude, such as permitting Coast Guard officers to board Colombian-flagged ships. U.S. officials have touted Colombia's joint anti-drug efforts as a model for the region.

The U.S. and Mexican military relationship has strengthened since the two nations signed the 2008 Merida Initiative to work together in the drug war. There have been more cross-border trainings, especially with the Mexican Navy, which is considered less corrupt than the Mexican Army and has raised its profile with the captures and killings of drug bosses.

The combined operation was planned in a series of meetings over the past year. The maritime services signed letters of intent to work together to fight organized crime while respecting each country's sovereignty and territorial waters.

David Shirk, associate professor of political science at the University of San Diego, said the operation falls in line with Trump's vow to go after the "bad hombres," while President Enrique Pena Nieto has recognized organized crime is so severe that Mexico needs help.

"With more walled-off sections of the border, we've seen drug trafficking organizations literally go underground or offshore," he said.

Last year, the Coast Guard seized more than 455,000 pounds (206,000 kilograms) of cocaine worth more than $6 billion and brought more than 600 suspected traffickers back to the United States for prosecution. The Coast Guard has been criticized for holding suspects on ships where they cannot easily access lawyers. Shirk said joint operations could lead "to serious violations of suspects' rights at sea and possible human rights violations in the process."

Coast Guard officials say they respect suspects' rights. Where suspects will be sent with the three countries participating in the operation will be decided on a case-by-case basis.

U.S. military officials have been reluctant to openly discuss details of the cooperation with their Mexican counterparts, sensitive to the Mexican public's historical view and recent barbs between the two presidents.

Jorge Chabat, a political scientist at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching in Mexico City, said he doubts the combined operation will get much negative reaction from a Mexican public tired of drug violence.

"The more insecurity we have, the less nationalism we have in Mexico," he said.

Ultimately, he doubts the joint operation will make much difference.

"This is something they have to do to maintain drug trafficking at the same level, and not allow it to grow," he said. "That's the most you can do. You can't just surrender."

___

Associated Press writer Elliot Spagat in San Diego contributed to this report.

WASHINGTON — When Representative Ryan Costello of Pennsylvania announced on Sunday that he would join more than 40 other congressional Republicans not seeking re-election in November, he left no doubt about the reason: President Trump’s conduct made it impossible to talk about anything else.

Were he running, Mr. Costello said in an interview, he would be inundated with questions about Stephanie Clifford, the pornographic film actress known as Stormy Daniels, who has said she had an affair with Mr. Trump and was threatened  to stay silent about it.

“If I had a town hall this week, it would be question after question,” Mr. Costello said. “‘Do you believe him or do you believe her? Why don’t you believe her?’”

While Republicans have been bracing for months for a punishing election in November, they are increasingly alarmed that their losses may be even worse than feared because the midterm campaign appears destined to turn more on the behavior of the man in the White House than any other in decades.

As much as gun control, immigration, the sweeping tax overhaul and other issues are mobilizing voters on the left and the right, the seamy sex allegations and Mr. Trump’s erratic style could end up alienating crucial blocs of suburban voters and politically moderate women who might be drawn to some Republican policies but find the president’s purported sex antics to be reprehensible.

Polls and every recent election show that Mr. Trump has galvanized liberal and moderate voters — especially women and those with college degrees — to oppose his party. Yet at the same time, personal loyalty to the president is increasingly the most crucial litmus test for Republicans.

This widening chasm has created a dilemma for Republicans, especially in liberal and swing states.

If they stay faithful to Mr. Trump they risk incurring the wrath of many in the political center during the general election, likely dooming their campaigns. But if they disavow the president, they risk depressing turnout from their core Republican voters and watching their pool of volunteers evaporate overnight.

“It’s a political Catch-22,” J. Tucker Martin, a Virginia Republican strategist, said. “Candidates can’t win without their base. But what it takes to satisfy a pro-Trump base in 2018 will make Republican candidates in many states unacceptable to large swaths of the electorate.”

And perhaps most ominous for Republicans, there does not appear to be an obvious middle ground: Mr. Martin’s candidate for governor of Virginia last November, Ed Gillespie, sought to avoid either inflaming or embracing Mr. Trump, and he was still soundly defeated.

At this point, many in the party seem more consumed with their nomination contests than with steeling themselves for the general election. And they are trying to finesse awkward topics like Ms. Clifford’s claims in ways that do not turn off primary voters.

In the two states where Republicans are most at risk of losing Senate seats, the party’s leading candidates have aligned themselves with Mr. Trump so far, in an attempt to pre-empt a challenge from their right in the primary. Senator Dean Heller of Nevada and Representative Martha McSally of Arizona, the establishment-preferred Senate candidate there, have praised Mr. Trump in ways that Democratic ad-makers could use against them this fall.

Such short-term calculations amount to political malpractice, say Democrats.

“Trump is way more than the proverbial elephant in the room — he’s the elephant in the room with political bad breath, B.O. and a foul mouth,” said Ace Smith, a veteran Democratic consultant, who argued that the last time a president’s conduct loomed so large in congressional midterms was in the post-Watergate election of 1974.

And Democrats believe that Mr. Trump so overwhelms the political conversation that it makes their own liabilities pale in comparison.

“I don’t see headlines with: ‘Porn star sues Nancy Pelosi,’” said Representative Cedric Richmond, a Louisiana Democrat, when asked about his party’s polarizing House leader.

Just as gun control has put many Republican candidates on the defensive after Saturday’s student-led demonstrations, Mr. Trump’s behavior is increasingly backing candidates into a corner.

At a debate last week, Debbie Lesko, the Republican nominee for the Arizona congressional seat vacated by Trent Franks, said that Mr. Trump “needs to address” the claims of sexual impropriety against him.

“I don’t know that he can lead on that issue, but he certainly needs to deal with it and it has to be investigated,” said Ms. Lesko, a recent state senator, adding: “I don’t use his rhetoric, and I’m certainly not going to sexually harass anyone.”

But in an illustration of how firm Mr. Trump’s grip is on the party base, the president’s past comments about groping women have become an issue in some races only because pro-Trump candidates are attacking Republican rivals for abandoning him over those infamous “Access Hollywood” remarks.

Michigan’s attorney general, Bill Schuette, is assailing his rival for the Republican nomination for governor, Lt. Gov. Brian Calley, because Mr. Calley backed away from Mr. Trump after the “Access Hollywood” tape came out in 2016.

Indeed, the party’s embrace of Mr. Trump is most striking in several Midwestern states where he triumphed in 2016, and where a large number of important Senate and governor’s races are underway.

In Indiana, three candidates for Senate have each tried to position themselves as steadfast supporters of the White House, and one predicted Mr. Trump could earn a Nobel Peace Prize for his outreach to North Korea. In West Virginia and Ohio, Republican members of Congress running for Senate are boasting of having supported Mr. Trump before their states’ primaries in 2016.

But even in conservative-leaning Midwestern states, there is a deepening recognition that Mr. Trump’s volatile persona is a problem. In Missouri, home to one of the nation’s most competitive Senate races, Mr. Trump swooped in this month to headline a fund-raiser for Josh Hawley, the mild-mannered state attorney general challenging Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat.

Mr. Trump used the occasion to brag loudly of having bluffed his way, using made-up facts, through a phone call with Canada’s prime minister — a boast that made international news.

Former Senator John C. Danforth, a senior statesman among Missouri Republicans who is a strong backer of Mr. Hawley, called the president a challenging force in the race. Voters, he said, “object to him on the basis of his style and demeanor and the way he talks and acts toward people.”

Mr. Danforth said he was hopeful voters would distinguish Republicans like Mr. Hawley, a cerebral former law professor, from Mr. Trump, rather than rejecting “anybody who has the same label Trump has.”

But as Mr. Costello, the representative not running for re-election in Pennsylvania, noted, Mr. Trump’s persona did not just fuel liberal activism — it also made it nearly impossible to talk about Republican policy goals.

“He blocks everything out,” Mr. Costello said of the president. “What fuels the energy isn’t the issues. It’s the personality.”

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. 

The gun-control movement goes global, the North Korean defectors who didn’t make it, and the fight over the Bight. Here’s what you need to know: 

•  “Welcome to the revolution.”

That was a survivor of the recent Florida school massacre addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent” at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington on Saturday.

Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches in support of gun control, including in Sydney, above, Tokyo, Mumbai, Berlin, Paris and London.

You can hear some of the speeches in this video, and here’s a photo gallery. And yes, in the U.S., there were counterprotesters calling for more guns.

_____

•  President Trump returns from his Florida resort to a White House he left in turmoil last week, after his head-spinning decisions on national security, trade and the domestic budget. (Catch up here.) His own aides are nervous about what comes next.

His new, hard-line choices for key posts — including John Bolton, above, as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — have raised the threat of military confrontation if foreign adversaries do not meet U.S. demands.

Meanwhile, women who said they had affairs with Mr. Trump are speaking out. Last week, it was a former Playboy model, Karen McDougal. In a few hours (7 p.m. Eastern, 10 a.m. Sydney), the adult film actress Stormy Daniels is scheduled to appear on CBS’s “60 Minutes” (here’s our profile of her).

_____

• Markets around the world have been shaken by the prospect of a trade war.

But China’s response to President Trump’s sweeping protectionism has so far been muted, with just a few tit-for-tat tariffs. Our reporters say there’s a good reason: The U.S. tariffs will have only a small impact on China’s economy — and China could easily deepen the pain for the U.S. by blocking U.S. aircraft and soybeans from its markets.

Here are some strong reactions from politicians, officials and analysts around the world. (And the U.S.-China contest for technological dominance is already red hot.).

Beijing unexpectedly installed a party boss, Guo Shuqing, over its newly named central bank governor, Yi Gang.

_____

• High-level officials from North and South Korea meet this week to discuss the agenda for the talks between their leaders, Kim Jong-un and Moon Jae-in.

Around 30,000 North Koreans have successfully defected to the South in total, but far fewer are getting out under the reign of Mr. Kim.

Our reporters reconstructed the harrowing story of five who never made it.

_____

• Australia has evaded recession for 27 years, its economy buffered by supplying energy and raw materials like iron ore to the manufacturing economies of Asia, particularly China’s.

And a plan to open “the Bight” — a pristine stretch of ocean that’s home to calving whales and teeming fisheries — to Norwegian drilling could help the country eclipse Qatar as the world’s largest exporter of natural gas.

But opposition has been surprisingly strong. A woman who works in marine adventures in the Bight bemoaned the possible damage to “our fishing industry, our tourism industry, our lifestyle.”

_____

• Duke Tran, who once fled Vietnam and was enslaved by the Khmer Rouge in Cambodia, has waged a long legal fight against Wells Fargo, saying the bank fired him for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices.

• Elon Musk joined a growing chorus of tech leaders calling for people to #DeleteFacebook, escalating his feud with Mark Zuckerberg.

• Internet companies like Facebook and Google were built on a model in which people gave up their information for free services. Now, that idea is under siege.

• The first nonstop flight between Australia and the U.K. reached London after a 17-hour flight from Perth. The head of Qantas called the new service a “game-changer.”

• We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona.

• Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• “Australia’s claim to playing hard but fair has evaporated for years to come.” So says a cricket analyst, pondering whether the national team’s captain, Steve Smith, will survive the scandal over blatant ball-tampering in South Africa. [ABC]

• James Packer, 50, the Australian billionaire who last week resigned from his gambling empire over “mental health issues,” checked into a $5,000-per-night psychiatric hospital in the U.S. [News.com.au]

• Carles Puigdemont, the former president of Catalonia who is wanted in Spain on sedition charges, was detained after he crossed into Germany from Denmark. [The New York Times]

 • The Chinese historian Shen Zhihua has an impeccable Communist Party pedigree, enabling him to shine a light on some of China’s darkest secrets — including those involving the Cold War and North Korea. [The New York Times]

• Beggars working the subways in Wuhan, a major city in central China, can make as much as five times the national average daily wage, according to the local news media. [South China Morning Post]

• Britain’s post-Brexit passports, hailed by Prime Minister Theresa May as “an expression of independence,” will be made in France. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different.

• Explore how to age with meaning and happiness.

• Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.

• Ata, a tiny, bizarrely formed mummy discovered in Chile, isn’t an alien after all — but the real story is almost as strange.

• In memoriam:  Julie Yip-Williams, 42, a former refugee from Vietnam who blogged candidly about her colon cancer and the unfairness of life; Phan Van Khai, 84, a Soviet-trained former prime minister of Vietnam who helped overhaul the country’s economy and build ties with the U.S.

 • Finally, the joys and tribulations of coupling. Our audience editor in Sydney, fresh off her own honeymoon, offers Australia’s five most popular Modern Love columns … read into their popularity what you will.

Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here's the list.)

We’d like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of “Lamento Borincano,” by Canario y Su Grupo.

Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, “Lamento Borincano” was composed by Rafael Hernández, one of the island’s most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).

The song’s title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Rico’s indigenous name.

The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of immigration north.

The lyrics tell of a farmer who is “loco de contento” (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:

“Borinquen, the land of Eden

The one that when singing, the great Gautier

He called the pearl of the seas.

Now that you die

With your regrets

Let me sing to you too.”

Chris Stanford contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. 

And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. 

Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

Major R. Owens once dreamed that an alien spaceship had landed and that the creature that clambered out told the first person it encountered, “Take me to your librarian.”

Or so the story goes, but it seems in character. It spoke, well, volumes about who Mr. Owens was before he became a state senator and, later, a congressman — or, in career terms, what he was: a librarian.

In 12 terms representing Brooklyn, he was known as the “librarian in Congress.” That was a play on a real title, the Librarian of Congress. As he knew, the person with that job is responsible for the world’s largest library, across from the United States Capitol.

Mr. Owens, who retired from Congress in 2006 and died in 2013 at age 77, is not to be forgotten at a library that is not quite that big, but still huge: the Brooklyn Public Library. He worked for it in the 1950s and 1960s, when he was in his 20s and early 30s.

By early 2020, the wave of people that surges into the building on Grand Army Plaza every day will be reminded of Mr. Owens and his first career, because the library is about to begin an ambitious renovation project. One of the first things people will see — after they pass through the monumental entrance with its sculptures of literary figures like Hiawatha and Tom Sawyer — will be the Major Owens Welcome Center.

It will serve as a gateway to the nation’s fifth-largest library system. And the library’s president and chief executive, Linda E. Johnson, has ideas for what will lie beyond.

“We are focused on broadening the definition of what it means to be literate,” Ms. Johnson said. “A hundred years ago, it was transactional: You borrowed a book, in English. You took it home. You brought it back.”

Now the library has holdings in more than 30 languages and offers digital downloads that go poof when the due date expires. It has Wi-Fi. Ms. Johnson said the central library and the 59 branch libraries are the largest source of free internet access in Brooklyn. In warm weather, people with laptops do not go far when the doors close at the central library. They take up positions on the steps outside and log back in.

Like other urban libraries, its mission now includes providing English classes; some are conversation groups led by volunteers. Ms. Johnson said a third of the households in Brooklyn speak a language other than English.

But buildings deteriorate if they are not maintained. Three years ago, when library officials took stock, they found $300 million worth of deferred maintenance work at the central library and all the branch libraries. On their list were aging boilers, iffy air conditioning systems and leaky roofs. The central library, which opened in 1941, has its own share of problems. During the snowstorm last week, a section of the ceiling in the Arts and Music section on the third floor began leaking. Tables and chairs below had to be cordoned off with yellow tape, almost like a crime scene.

That was bad enough — on busy days, the central library needs every seat it has, and then some.

Ms. Johnson, who is passionate about architecture, talks about “figuring out how buildings can inspire people.” The central library was designed to do that when libraries were about books: From above, it actually looks like an open book. The Art Deco-ish front entrance recalls the spine, the two huge wings the front and back covers.

But now the central library has a computer room for patrons where every terminal is often filled and where bright meeting rooms line the perimeter. The space used to be a staff cafeteria, Ms. Johnson said.

That signals a fundamental change in the way libraries operate. Originally, nearly two-thirds of the central building was intended for behind-the-scenes work — putting shiny covers on books, gluing in the pockets for checkout cards, typing up the cards, checking in books that had been returned and trundling them on carts for reshelving.

The reshelving is still necessary, of course, but most of the other tasks are now done at a processing center in Queens that the Brooklyn library system shares with the New York Public Library.

That leaves unused space that Ms. Johnson wants to repurpose. Among many other things, the plan for the central library calls for replacing two levels of old-fashioned “stacks” — shelves that were off-limits to the public and are no longer needed for day-in, day-out work. The plan envisions a new “experience space” where, among other things, children could learn about robotics or three-dimensional printing.

Or maybe something else. “Who knows what, in two years, we’ll be talking about?” Ms. Johnson said the other day. “One of the problems is none of these libraries were built when anyone was thinking about technology. Being literate today means being digitally fluent.” For libraries and librarians, it also means adapting at an ever-accelerating pace.

But there is so much to do that the “experience center” will not be built until later on. First will come a reorganization of what is where in the building. The “popular library,” a place for browsing what the librarians consider top titles, has been underused on the out-of-the-way mezzanine. It will get a new home just past the Major Owens Welcome Center.

Other changes will make the lobby more librarylike. An office where people can apply for the city’s municipal identification card program will move downstairs, as will a passport-application office. They will have their own entrance off Flatbush Avenue.

As for what makes the building work, there will be new heating and air-conditioning systems and new elevators.

The plan is to do the $135 million project at the central library in four stages. Some areas will be blocked off during construction, but the library itself will never close. The first phase is budgeted at $35 million, and the library has the money, with $10 million from the de Blasio administration, $2 million from the Brooklyn borough president’s office and separate City Council appropriations and donations. That leaves $100 million to be raised for later stages.

Not everything that Ms. Johnson has in mind is going into the central library. A new, larger branch library is planned for Sunset Park. Part of the construction cost will come from the $40 million the library received from the controversial sale of a branch library building in Brooklyn Heights. A new library there will occupy part of an apartment tower that is now being built.

But libraries are not just about buildings. There are the ideas in the collections they contain.

“We are the most democratic institution in our society,” Ms. Johnson said. “All you need to come to the library is the inclination and imagination to walk through our front door.”

She mentioned a study that identified libraries as one of the most trusted sources of information these days. “I don’t want to pat ourselves on the back,” she said, but she did just that. And she said the credit went to librarians in the branches. After President Trump’s inauguration last year, branch librarians began posting signs that said “All are welcome here.”

“We’ve run with that,” Ms. Johnson said. In the lobby of the central library is a sign almost as tall as Ms. Johnson with “All are welcome here” in 12 languages.

After mentioning places in the refurbished central library that could host discussions about topics like immigration or the Constitution, Ms. Johnson talked about Andrew Carnegie, the industrialist who is considered a saint among librarians.

“I think he would be proud of the way libraries have risen to meet the needs of communities,” she said. “Allegedly the reason he gave the money” — underwriting more than 1,500 libraries, including 21 in Brooklyn — “was he grew up poor in Scotland and was denied entrance to the library.”

Good morning.

(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Tens of thousands of demonstrators across California marched in solidarity with national protests for gun control on Saturday, a sea of people awash in homemade signs, blaring music and anti-gun chants. Inspired by the students of Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., Californians from San Diego to San Luis Obispo to Oakland showed their support.

In Los Angeles, more than 30,000 people marched through downtown, according to an estimate by City Hall.

Martha Jimenez-Ito, a teacher from Ventura County, said she attended the rally because she was tired of her young students feeling unsafe at school every time there’s a new shooting. She held a handwritten poster that said, “I will not stay quiet or accept unsafe schools.” She said she believed the tide was turning on gun legislation, despite little previous action. In the background, “Changes” by Tupac Shakur blasted over loudspeakers.

Nearby, a young girl stood beside her pregnant mother and held an unadorned cardboard sign that simply asked, “Am I next?”

Linda Wang, 39, said she was convinced there would be gun reform after the 2012 shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., and was disappointed nothing happened. Originally from Taiwan, Ms. Wang said people outside the United States think gun violence in the country is “ridiculous.”

“There are shootings every day here,” said Ms. Wang, who has lived in the United States for 15 years. “We have to do something in America. This is not right.”

Omi Ford, 19, said she believed the large crowds emphasized how much energy is behind the gun control push this time around.

“I’m here to show that the Parkland students are not alone in this, in their thinking about this, even though some people act like they are,” said Ms. Ford, an acting student at the American Musical and Dramatic Academy in Los Angeles.

The city’s mayor, Eric M. Garcetti, praised activists for their work and urged students to remain involved. Mr. Garcetti said President Trump had failed to show leadership on the issue despite promises after the Parkland shooting.

“He said we shouldn’t be scared of the gun lobby and yet he buckles every time they blow a whistle for him,” he said.

Nearby, a group of about 10 counterprotesters held up signs to support the Second Amendment, protected by police tape. More than a dozen police officers stood between the two camps.

John Turano, 60, who wore American flag-imprinted shorts, said he decided to counterprotest in order to support the Second Amendment and “my president, Trump.” He said he did not own guns but thought efforts to restrict gun ownership were too extreme.

He paused when asked what he thought about the marchers.

“When you feel something passionately, and you’re in America, you’re not restricted in what you feel or what you say,” he said.

(Please note: We regularly highlight articles on news sites that have limited access for nonsubscribers.)

• Personal care aides who work with older people are increasingly foreign-born workers, many of whom come to the United States through family-based immigration. [The New York Times]

• This video, through body cam and helicopter footage, reconstructs how Stephon Clark was killed by the Sacramento police in his backyard. Officers fired 20 times at him. [The New York Times]

• Al Sharpton said he planned to attend the funeral for Mr. Clark. [The Sacramento Bee]

• Uber was becoming more aggressive with its self-driving car research before a fatal crash in Arizona, even as the technology faltered. [The New York Times]

• Though the state’s homeless population has risen by 16 percent in two years, money allocated to help is going unspent. [The Los Angeles Times]

• Hundreds of Irvine residents gathered to protest a plan to move homeless people into a tent city near the Orange County Great Park. [O.C. Register]

• A woman filed a lawsuit against the Sacramento Police Department accusing an officer of sexually assaulting her during an arrest. [The Sacramento Bee]

• Apple is building a new 128,000-square-foot headquarters for its entertainment division in Culver City. [The New York Times]

• A bill in the State Senate would increase development that could transform neighborhoods in Los Angeles. [The Los Angeles Times]

• The potential effects of S.B. 827, the law that would lead to more dense housing near public transit hubs, aren’t just hype. [CALMatters]

• The California courts paid more than half a million dollars since 2010 to resolve sexual harassment suits against judges and staff. [Tribune News Service]

L.A. Cycle Tours is organizing a nine-mile taco tour around downtown Los Angeles on Tuesday.

The San Francisco Art Institute will hold its public opening for its new Philippe Rahm exhibition on Thursday.

A live tribute concert on Friday at LIT Nightclub in Los Angeles will commemorate the Mexican-American singer Selena Quintanilla Pérez for the anniversary of her death.

Beyond Baroque in Los Angeles is hosting its second annual L.A. Punk Film Festival on Friday.

The third annual San Diego Wine Festival, “Uncorked,” is Saturday at Embarcadero Marina Park North.

Angelenos gathered Sunday evening at Stories Bookstore and Cafe in Echo Park for the fourth anniversary installation of the “BUSted” story series. The tales centered on a common theme: getting around in Los Angeles without a car. The stories all took place on buses, trains, bicycles and sidewalks around the city.

The stories ranged from mundane to outrageous to poignant. One man, who has a slight visual impairment, described “seeing the light go out in a woman’s eyes” when he explained he didn’t have a car. (“It’s O.K., I live a full life.”) Another talked about meeting people of all walks of life through a running club, including homeless people, former gang members and public defenders. In between folk songs, a singer recalled his experience getting a D.U.I.

The faces in the audience — huddled in the bookstore’s patio, beneath Edison bulbs and a canopy — were young and old, bushy and clean-shaven, of all shades. The show started just a little late. “I’m going to give the performers an opportunity to get here before we get started,” the organizer told the audience. “They’re all on the bus, so sometimes it takes a little bit longer than your typical guest.”

California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.

 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• President Trump has ordered 60 Russians to leave the U.S., adding to a cascade of actions by Western countries in response to the poisoning of a former Russian spy in Britain.

Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy and Poland were among the countries that announced plans to force out some of Moscow’s envoys.

The American expulsion order, which includes a dozen people identified as Russian intelligence officers working at the U.N., will also close the Russian Consulate in Seattle.

• It’s  the toughest action taken against the Kremlin by Mr. Trump, who has been criticized for not being firm enough with President Vladimir Putin.

• “That’s a beautiful little girl, it would be a shame if something happened to her mom.”

In a “60 Minutes” interview broadcast on Sunday, the pornographic film star said that she and her daughter were approached in Las Vegas in 2011 by a man who told her: “Leave Trump alone. Forget the story.”

The actress, whose real name is Stephanie Clifford, told Anderson Cooper that the threat was behind her decision to strike a $130,000 deal for her silence about an alleged affair with Donald Trump. She is now suing to get out of that agreement.

• Our profile of Ms. Clifford was one of our most popular articles over the weekend.

• The rallies protesting gun violence drew hundreds of thousands around the U.S. and the world over the weekend, and Democratic and Republican leaders say the issue could play a major role in voting in November.

Opinion polls show wide support for gun control. Republicans are fighting to maintain their appeal with the party’s dwindling moderate wing in the suburbs, but the gun debate also poses problems for some Democrats, who will be defending Senate seats in strongly conservative states.

The March for Our Lives demonstrations were led by young people but they had the financial backing and organizational muscle of adults. Here are photographs from the protests.

• While we’re on the subject of guns, Remington, one of the oldest firearm manufacturers in the U.S., filed for bankruptcy protection on Sunday.

• As President Trump faces the important decision of whether to be interviewed in the special counsel’s investigation, his personal legal team has essentially been reduced to one: Jay Sekulow.

Top lawyers in New York and Washington have repeatedly spurned overtures to take over the defense of Mr. Trump, who has publicly contradicted his advisers at times.

The president has a different view: “Many lawyers and top law firms want to represent me in the Russia case,” he said on Twitter.

Mr. Sekulow said on Sunday that Mr. Trump would not be hiring two lawyers who were announced only last week as additions to the team.

• Separately, we looked at how a top fund-raiser for Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign later marketed his connections to politicians and governments around the world, including some with unsavory records.

• The photographer John Moore has spent nearly a decade along the U.S.-Mexico border, covering the story of immigration from all sides.

He captures images of the landscape, with its natural and manufactured lines of defense. He also takes intimate portraits of migrants and border officers.

• Here are 17 of his photographs.

• South Korea said today that it had won an exemption from U.S. steel tariffs after the two countries agreed to amend their free-trade deal.

• Amazon now collects sales tax in every state that has one, but some cities are missing out.

• S.U.V.s will be in the spotlight at the New York auto show, one of the headlines to watch this week.

• U.S. stocks were down on Friday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets today.

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Explore how to age with meaning and happiness.

• Change your bad habit by replacing it with something different.

• Recipe of the day: Embrace a meatless Monday with stir-fried peppers, eggplant and tofu.

“Caroline Wyatt has been a superb reporter for the BBC on topics ranging from defense to religion. Here she describes, in both charming and painful detail, her continuing war against multiple sclerosis.” [BBC]

— Steven Erlanger, chief diplomatic correspondent

“This ambitious article  analyzes the oldest (and to me, most important) form of human communication: storytelling. And it nearly forensically describes how stories affect people, offering the prospect of using narrative to help address fundamental issues like climate change and building community.” [Stanford Social Innovation Review]

— Meagan Lopez, global digital business director

• The U.S. carried out its first drone strike against Qaeda militants in southern Libya, signaling a possible expansion of the American counterterrorism campaign in North Africa.

• At least 64 people  were killed in a fire at a shopping mall in Siberia.

• Carles Puigdemont, the former leader of Catalonia wanted in Spain on rebellion charges, was detained in Germany on an international arrest warrant.

• Qantas Airways completed its first nonstop flight from Australia to Britain, covering about 9,000 miles in just over 17 hours.

• Do you believe? The No. 11-seeded Loyola of Chicago, inspired by the team’s 98-year-old chaplain, Sister Jean, will join Kansas, Michigan and Villanova in the Final Four of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament.

On the women’s side, two No. 1 seeds, Louisville and Mississippi State, reached the Final Four. The other two teams will be decided tonight.

• “Pacific Rim Uprising”  unseated “Black Panther” at the top of the North American box office.

• An “Angels” that soars

“Sometimes, just when you need it most, a play courses into your system like a transfusion of new blood.”

A London-born revival of Tony Kushner’s “Angels in America” pulses with spirit, our co-chief theater critic writes.

• Quotation of the day

“He is looking for the guy who can say, ‘I know how to handle Mueller. I know you think he is bad, and we’ll take care of it.’ Problem is, you can’t find that lawyer, because no one will be able to do that.”

— Roger Cossack, a longtime legal analyst, on President Trump’s struggles to find and keep lawyers.

• The Times, in other words

Here’s an image of today’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.

Last week, the Library of Congress in Washington announced its annual additions to the National Recording Registry, which honors significant pieces of American history and culture. (Here’s the list.)

We’d like to look at one: the original 1930 recording of “Lamento Borincano,” by Canario y Su Grupo.

Known as an unofficial anthem of Puerto Rico, “Lamento Borincano” was composed by Rafael Hernández, one of the island’s most renowned and prolific songwriters (although he wrote it while living in New York City).

The title refers to Borinquen, a derivation of Puerto Rico’s indigenous name.

The song reflects the plight of Puerto Rican farmers during the Great Depression. They faced not only the threat of hurricanes but also the economic changes brought after 1917, when Puerto Ricans were granted U.S. citizenship, leading to a wave of emigration.

The lyrics tell of a farmer who is “loco de contento” (crazy with happiness) at the prospect of selling his produce in town. But he arrives to find the town empty. With no one to buy anything, he returns to his farm demoralized. The song ends:

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here.

Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. To receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, sign up here.

Check out our full range of free newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

(((SEMITISM))) Being Jewish in America in the Age of Trump By Jonathan Weisman 238 pp. St. Martin’s Press. $25.99.

Come November’s midterm elections, the Republican candidate for the Third Congressional District of Illinois will be a Nazi. There is nothing neo about Arthur Jones. Not just a white supremacist, not merely a foot soldier of the alt-right, Jones is the sort of full-on, unreconstructed, Holocaust-denying (“the blackest lie in history”), Hitler-worshiping, blood-and-soil warrior for whom the Jews are the root of all evil. Don’t panic. He will lose the election in an overwhelmingly Democratic district, but it is precisely that assumed outcome which seemed to have persuaded local Republicans not to bother opposing him in the March 20 primary. Waking up to the result of their indifference they belatedly repudiated Jones. But it might have occurred to them that the mere fact of his appearance on the ballot as the Republican candidate is itself a shocking affront not just to Jews but to all the norms of American political decency. Then again, those norms right now are shifting sand.

The sick joke of Jones’s candidacy doesn’t feature in Jonathan Weisman’s “(((Semitism))),” but every other kind of monstrously reawakened zombie-Nazi madness does, especially those swarming and multiplying in the digital dung heap. His book is largely a report from consternation nation, and its longest chapter chronicles the rise of white supremacist aggression, on and off the web. He has been on the sharp end of trolling storms and knows what it feels like (as do I) to have yourself photoshopped with concentration camp stripes or with your head in an oven. But in the end Weisman is unsure how much of an actual and immediate danger this online abuse represents. For all of the website bile and the tiki-torch marches, “the threat of violence against Jews,” he writes, “has not materialized into actual violence,” especially in comparison with hate crimes committed against African-Americans and Muslims. He quotes the Anti-Defamation League’s Jonathan Greenblatt saying that “the number of Americans that hold anti-Semitic beliefs has decreased dramatically.”

But of course it is the advent of Trumpian politics — its nonstop carnival of paranoia; its scapegoating of Hispanics and African-Americans; its anti-immigrant phobia — that has rung Weisman’s alarm bells, which accounts for his subtitle: “Being Jewish in America in the Age of Trump.” More sinister for him than the foaming lunacies of the neo-Nazis is the alt-right’s embrace of conspiracy theorists; the routine mutation of fantasy into fact; the appetite for seeing secret hands (George Soros for instance) at work in plots to undermine America — all of which have a whiff of late Weimar about them, not to mention the long history of populist anti-Semitism in the United States. Better, Weisman believes, to be fretfully vigilant than torpidly complacent. In one of the 1940s movie-poster homilies he favors (“the world is watching,” “the nation gasped”), he warns that while “unheard thunder” was rumbling, “the Jews slept.”

But this reduction of “being Jewish” to a state of hair-tearing anxiety about the surge of anti-Semitism means Weisman never quite delivers on his subtitle’s promise. A richly researched and nuanced account of Jewish life in stressed-out, polarized America would be timely, but this isn’t it. Instead, Weisman takes a chapter to complain about what he considers the major distraction preventing American Jews from being fully alert to the perils of the time — but this, a little surprisingly, turns out to be “Israel, Israel, Israel.” It is not clear whether he thinks the AIPAC herd mentality, so elated at gestures like the embassy move to Jerusalem, blinkers Jews to the threat that Trump and Trumpism represent to the liberal culture he champions. Or whether he believes that increasingly abrasive debates dividing the Jewish community about the occupation of the West Bank and the expansion of settlements are the greater problem. Weisman reports with understandable pain his demonization by hard-liners as a self-hating Jewish traitor for daring to point out, in a Times infographic, which opponents of the Iranian nuclear deal were Jewish. But such bitter arguments have gone on for a while and it seems odd to suppose that engagement with the trials and tribulations of Israel somehow precludes engaging with diaspora anti-Semitism, as if Jews of all people have a finite capacity for attentiveness. Anti-Semitism and the existence of Israel are hardly historically disconnected.

The second malaise Weisman identifies as blunting Jewish alertness to the peril of the times is the hollowing out of a Jewish identity that is neither uncritically Zionist nor devoutly religious. “The Jews who are most interested in a liberal, internationalist future, who wish to live progressive, assimilated existences free of threat,” he warns, “are disappearing.” But his sense of the tradition he believes is being lost is romantically wishful. In a hasty drive through Jewish history he nominates Moses Maimonides and Moses Mendelssohn as embodying this outward-looking nontribal Judaism. But the two Moseses were intensely devout and at times darkly pessimistic about the prospects of a Jewish life in a non-Jewish world.

It is true nonetheless, as Weisman points out, that a considerable majority of Americans identifying as Jews do so by way of remembering the Holocaust or being engaged with the fate of Israel rather than anything much rooted in Judaism and Jewish history. Weisman confesses he isn’t “much into davening” and reckons that even efforts to introduce more Hebrew into the Reform liturgy is a matter of simply “going through the motions,” ultimately more impediment than inspiration. But if “being Jewish” means nothing more than an ethically attuned solidarity with kindred disadvantaged at home and abroad, then the reawakening he wants will just evaporate in a cloud of airy good will. Being Jewish is knowing Jewish history in some depth; being Jewish is engaging with the incomparable treasury of disputation that is the Talmud; being Jewish is immersion in the boundless glories of Jewish literature, poetry, philosophy and art.

It’s this broad-minded debate-conscious kind of Jewish life that Weisman worries is moribund. But it may be too soon to write its obituary. Annual Limmud retreats, which offer a festival of learning and discussion on all things truly or even notionally Jewish, are thriving in Britain and increasingly in America. Jewish journalism in magazines like Moment and Tablet alongside reinvigorated institutions like The Forward and The British Jewish Quarterly Review seems to be entering something of a golden age. In London, JW3 — since its opening in a spankingly smart modern building — has become a magnet of cultural energy, and Jewish Book Week (also in London) draws packed houses (and not exclusively Jewish audiences) to its offerings in early March. And if it is acts of solidarity Weisman wants (those have never really gone away) he might note that the home page of the American Jewish World Service for Purim featured a photograph of a Rohingya refugee.

None of this is to make light of the sinister anti-Semitic strain in the ascendancy of alt-right ideology. There are plenty of signs that Jew-hatred is pushing through the soft walls of ultraright politics and poisoning its bloodstream. There is nothing wrong, as Weisman counsels, with Jews standing shoulder to shoulder with those most damaged and threatened by tribalist populism, as Jews like Abraham Joshua Heschel did in the heyday of the civil rights movement. Ultimately, though, what is needed is an aggressive defense of those things that not so long ago could be taken for granted in America, and under which Jewish life has prospered to a degree unique in the world: the integrity of the democratic process, the protections of the Constitution and the preservation of the ideal of a “nation of immigrants,” a phrase just deleted from the Immigration Service’s mission statement. And a little davening now and then wouldn’t do any harm.

WASHINGTON —  President Donald Trump grudgingly signed a $1.3 trillion federal spending measure Friday and averted a midnight government shutdown — but only after undercutting his own negotiators and setting off a mini-panic with a last-minute veto threat. The episode further eroded the already damaged credibility of both the president and a White House staff that had assured the nation he was onboard.

Trump said he was "very disappointed" in the package, in part because it did not fully pay for his planned border wall with Mexico and did not extend protection from deportation to some 700,000 "Dreamer" immigrants due to lose coverage under a program the president himself has moved to eliminate.

But Trump praised the bill's provisions to increase military spending and said he had "no choice but to fund our military."

"My highest duty is to keep America safe," he said.

The bill signing came a few hours after Trump created his latest round of last-minute drama by tweeting that he was "considering" a veto.

With Congress already on recess, and a government shutdown looming, he said that young immigrants now protected in the U.S. under Barack Obama's Delayed Action for Childhood Arrivals program "have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded."

Trump's veto threat put him at odds with top members of his administration and Republican House Speaker Paul Ryan, who had said publicly that Trump supported the bill. Advisers inside and outside the White House said they never expected Trump to go through with his threat and believed he was likely just blowing off steam.

Finally, in made-for-TV scheduling, Trump took to Twitter again to announce he'd be holding a news conference to talk about the bill. The drama was short-lived: An aide told reporters the signing was on. And it was a monologue by Trump, not a news conference. He answered two questions called out to him as he left the room.

Asked why he'd made the threat, Trump said he'd "looked very seriously at the veto," but "because of the incredible gains that we've been able to make for the military that overrode any of our thinking."

He warned Congress, "I will never sign another bill like this again."

The giant spending bill, though, expires Sept. 30, and another funding measure will be needed. To boost the party-in-power's ability to muscle its agenda through Congress, he called for an overhaul of Senate rules to allow for simple-majority votes on all bills and appealed to Congress for line-item veto power to kill specific spending items he disagrees with. The Supreme Court ruled in 1998 that a congressionally passed line-item veto was unconstitutional.

The will-he, won't-he episode came hours after the Senate's early morning passage of the huge spending package aimed at keeping the government open past Friday midnight.

Trump backed the bill only reluctantly, and Republican lawmakers and aides acknowledged the deal involved trade-offs for Democratic votes that were needed despite the GOP majority lock on Congress.

The president had been especially frustrated in recent days by media coverage of the bill and by conservative Republican lawmakers, some of whom had been calling to harangue him and making their cases loudly on cable news shows he is known to watch.

Rep. Mark Meadows, R-N.C., chairman of the House Freedom Caucus and a friend of the president, said in a tweet that the group would "fully support" a veto, adding that Congress should pass a short-term budget resolution while Trump and congressional leaders "negotiate a better deal for the forgotten men and women of America."

Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., also egged Trump on to a veto. "Please do, Mr. President," he tweeted. "I am just down the street and will bring you a pen. The spending levels without any offsets are grotesque, throwing all of our children under the bus. Totally irresponsible."

Trump's decision to ultimately sign the bill came after a call from Speaker Ryan. At around 9:30 a.m. Friday, Ryan encouraged the president to sign the bill, according to a person familiar with the communication, and discussed all the wins it delivered, especially for the military. The person spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private conversation.

It was the second time Ryan had been forced to intervene this week. On Wednesday, the speaker made a surprise trip to the White House, with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell joining in by phone, to try to keep Trump in accord. A White House official that day denied that Trump was considering vetoing the package, and Ryan emerged from the huddle saying Trump would support the bill.

The veto threat pushed to the forefront concerns over Trump and his staffers' eroding credibility. The spending bill had been negotiated by Trump's own aides — with sign-off from the boss on every major decision.

The surprise threat also threatened to undermine future efforts by White House staff tasked with negotiating on Trump's behalf.

"We don't have a stable, reliable partner with whom we can work in the White House," said Rep. Gerry Connolly, D-Va. He added that no deal can be deemed secure until Trump "puts his signature on it."

"It has consequences going forward," he added. "Who wants to trust a comprehensive immigration deal and put a lot of time and effort into it, only to see it at the eleventh hour derailed because, I don't know, he turns on Fox News and somebody criticizes it?"

Trump's decision to ultimately sign the bill averted what would have been the third federal shutdown of the year, an outcome both parties wanted to avoid.

The omnibus spending bill, which will fund the government through September, beefs up military and domestic programs, delivering federal funds to every corner of the country.

But the plan was rejected by many Republicans who campaigned on spending restraints and balanced budgets.

___

Associated Press writers Matthew Daly, Zeke Miller and Jonathan Lemire contributed to this report.

There are still a few days left in Women’s History Month, and coming out of the Book Review’s recent theme issue we recommend a number of titles this week exploring the place of women in the culture at large. Women in science: “A Lab of One’s Own,” by Patricia Fara. Women in business: “That’s What She Said,” by Joanne Lipman. Women in television: both “Just the Funny Parts,” by the comedy writer Nell Scovell, and “Stealing the Show,” by the TV reporter Joy Press, who has just signed on as a Vanity Fair correspondent. (Yes, her book discusses “Roseanne,” and much else besides.) There’s also a novel and a story collection, a book of essays about being black and female in white male society, and a graphic novelist’s celebration of rebellious women in history. Changing course — you’ll get the bad joke in a second — we also recommend a new translation of the Bhagavad Gita, a deeply reported profile of a Chinese immigrant to New York City and a biography of Tiger Woods. I warned you “changing course” was bad.

Gregory CowlesSenior Editor, Books

TIGER WOODS, by Jeff Benedict and Armen Keteyian. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) There have been many books about Tiger Woods, but this new biography by Benedict and Keteyian — which arrives just as the golfer is rounding into form again on the course — draws on previous sources and new interviews with more than 250 people to bring grainy new detail to almost every aspect of Woods’s life. “It’s a confident and substantial book that’s nearly as sleek as a Christopher Nolan movie. It makes a sweet sound, like a well-struck golf ball,” our critic Dwight Garner writes. “I found it exhilarating, depressing, tawdry and moving in almost equal measure. It’s a big American story that rolls across barbered lawns and then leaves you stranded in some all-night Sam’s Club of the soul.”

GODSONG: A Verse Translation of the Bhagavad Gita, With Commentary, by Amit Majmudar. (Knopf, $25.) “Godsong” is the poet Amit Majmudar’s translation of the Bhagavad Gita, the enigmatic religious text composed between 400 B.C. and A.D. 200. Majmudar, who is a radiologist as well as a writer, embarked on a crash course in Sanskrit to write it. “Each word became its own research project, the radiologist turned translator peering past the surface of language in search of the inner workings of the text,” our critic Parul Sehgal writes. “The translation is ravishing and faithful, marked by what Nabokov once called ‘the precision of a poet and the imagination of a scientist.’”

PATRIOT NUMBER ONE: American Dreams in Chinatown, by Lauren Hilgers. (Crown, $27.) Hilgers, a New York-based journalist who lived in Shanghai for six years, has written a rich and absorbing profile of a Chinese activist and immigrant named Zhuang Liehong. In addition to being a character study of Zhuang, our critic Jennifer Szalai writes, the book also serves as “an indelible portrait of his wife and their marriage; a canny depiction of Flushing, Queens; a lucid anatomy of Chinese politics and America’s immigration system. Such a comprehensive project could have easily sprawled across a book twice as long, but ‘Patriot Number One’ stays close to the people it follows, in a narrative as evocative and engrossing as a novel.”

STEALING THE SHOW: How Women Are Revolutionizing Television, by Joy Press. (Atria, $26.) Press traces the ways in which women have transformed the TV landscape and interviews groundbreaking showrunners like Diane English (“Murphy Brown”), Shonda Rhimes (“Grey’s Anatomy,” “Scandal”) and Jill Soloway (“Transparent”). “Here is a collection of women who have managed to make television on their own terms, embodying proof that it can be done,” Lisa Schwarzbaum writes in her review, adding that Press “is particularly interested in (and good at describing) the varieties of sexual identities available to women on shows created by women,” from Tina Fey’s intentionally asexual frumpiness on “30 Rock” to the characters’ joyous affection on “Broad City.”

A LAB OF ONE’S OWN: Science and Suffrage in the First World War, by Patricia Fara. (Oxford University, $24.95.) Fara offers a vibrant series of profiles of women for whom the war presented an opportunity to take on roles in the scientific and medical realm, previously denied them. Reviewing the book, the noted science writer Dava Sobel classifies it alongside recent titles like “Hidden Figures,” by Margot Lee Shetterly, and says they “provide much needed perspective, along with presumed-absent foremothers and role models. As a genre, these true stories constitute a chorus of voices all saying the same thing: ‘Yes, Virginia, there are women who do science.’”

BACK TALK: Stories, by Danielle Lazarin. (Penguin, paper, $16.) Short fiction that probes the lives of American women whose privilege doesn’t protect them from society’s burdens. Beautifully crafted, these stories aren’t without viscera; sublimated rage fills the crevices between them, as Carmen Maria Machado notes in her review: “Some of Lazarin’s stories — not coincidentally, my favorites — show women pinging furiously off one another instead of their boyfriends, husbands and fathers, gathering incremental surges of strength and autonomy and rage, of unspoken power. … Lazarin’s style succeeds in part because the stakes for her characters are wide-ranging, because the implications of their actions ripple outward. In ‘Back Talk,’ the theme of internalized misogyny is, to be quite blunt, terrifying. It’s all the scarier in that it’s so quietly and accurately rendered.”

BRAZEN: Rebel Ladies Who Rocked the World, by Pénélope Bagieu. (First Second, $24.95.) A celebrated French graphic novelist, Bagieu brings together colorful, whimsical portraits of women — some known and some obscure — who broke the mold and lived life as they wanted. The cartoonist Lynda Barry reviews it for us: “Bagieu’s drawings are wonderful,” she writes. “Though sometimes spare, with minimal effort spent on backgrounds, her line manages to flow and skate through 29 stories of remarkable women. These drawings can act. They are alive with gestural attitude. They move, dance, struggle, fight back, fall in love, resist and wonder at the world. Some ham it up. Some suffer terrible abuse. To her credit, Bagieu doesn’t back away from drawing the marks of violence on their faces and their bodies, which may come as a surprise to those who are expecting a rah-rah young adult girl-power sort of read.”

JUST THE FUNNY PARTS: ... And a Few Hard Truths About Sneaking Into the Hollywood Boys’ Club, by Nell Scovell. (Dey St./Morrow, $27.99.) In this memoir of life as a TV comedy writer, the author lays out the years of toxic misogyny she endured on various sets. “Scovell, whose résumé includes stints on many zeitgeist-y shows, from ‘The Simpsons’ to ‘Murphy Brown,’ catalogs the men who should have been comrades and instead were antagonists,” Melena Ryzik writes in her review. “It’s not a short list.”

MRS., by Caitlin Macy. (Little, Brown, $27.) A bristling, funny, savage novel that homes in on the conflicted lives of three ultra-wealthy Manhattan wives and the corrupt man on whom they take vengeance. Alex Kuczynski’s review applauds the book for its entertainment value, and also for its deeper message: “The boldest thing about ‘Mrs.’ — as with ‘Big Little Lies’ — is that it focuses on the depths of women’s experiences as wives and mothers,” Kuczynski writes. “Their clashes with one another are entertaining, sure, but they’re a diversion from the more important conflict with their husbands and with male power.”

THAT’S WHAT SHE SAID: What Men Need to Know (And Women Need to Tell Them), by Joanne Lipman. (Morrow, $28.99.) Lipman, a seasoned journalist and newspaper editor, investigates the plight of working women with sympathy and reams of data, uncovering innumerable institutionalized prejudices. Our reviewer, Robbie Myers, says that the book “seems eerily prescient in light of our continuing national conversation about sexual politics in the workplace,” and notes that it often provides fresh angles on familiar dynamics: “When Lipman quizzed male executives on what it was about working with women that flummoxed them most, the resounding consensus was a crying woman. When women cry, a man’s testosterone drops, which makes him depressed. If he only knew that women typically don’t cry at work because they’re sad. According to the research Lipman cites, women cry in the office because they’re angry.”

I WROTE THIS BOOK BECAUSE I LOVE YOU: Essays, by Tim Kreider. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) In Kreider’s pleasurable and well-wrought essays, an affable hero gamely bumbles through adventures rich with moments of fleeting profundity and moral reckoning. “His depictions of the arc from ignorance to wisdom are reliably deft,” Melissa Febos writes in her review. “Kreider is a curious and compassionate observer and a fantastic wit — I laughed to tears more than once.”

THIS WILL BE MY UNDOING: Living at the Intersection of Black, Female, and Feminist in (White) America, by Morgan Jerkins. (Harper Perennial, paper, $15.99.) These challenging essays show how a sexist, racist culture prescribes black identity. “Without turning linguistic or lyrical cartwheels, Jerkins lucidly articulates social dynamics that have dictated the realities of American black women for centuries, like how white feminism erases black women,” Febos writes in her review. “ Indeed, it is a book I wish everyone in this country would read.”

LONDON — History was not supposed to turn out this way.

In the aftermath of World War II, the victorious Western countries forged institutions — NATO, the European Union, and the World Trade Organization — that aimed to keep the peace through collective military might and shared prosperity. They promoted democratic ideals and international trade while investing in the notion that coalitions were the antidote to destructive nationalism.

But now the model that has dominated geopolitical affairs for more than 70 years appears increasingly fragile. Its tenets are being challenged by a surge of nationalism and its institutions under assault from some of the very powers that constructed them — not least, the United States under President Trump.

In place of shared approaches to societal problems — from trade disputes, to security, to climate change — national interests have captured primacy. The language of multilateral cooperation has been drowned out by angry appeals to tribal solidarity, tendencies that are heightened by economic anxieties.

“What we’ve seen is a kind of backlash to liberal democracy,” said Amandine Crespy, a political scientist at Free University Brussels (ULB) in Belgium. “Masses of people feel they have not been properly represented in liberal democracy.”

Even as nationalists take aim at globalists, the eventual shape of international relations remains an open question. In a sign that investors are optimistic that talks can yet avert a trade war between the United States and China, markets soared on Monday. And the United States, Canada and other European nations expelled Russian diplomats in solidarity with Britain over the poisoning of a Russian defector in London, enhancing hopes that old alliances will endure.

Still, public anger at traditional centers of power remains fierce in many lands, with Mr. Trump’s election the most potent manifestation. He has claimed a mandate to attack the global establishment and its sacred institutions in the name of reasserting American primacy. He has injected uncertainty into the American commitment to NATO while dismissing the World Trade Organization as a “disaster.”

Within a White House roiled by tumult, recent weeks have demonstrated that the nationalists have seized the upper hand from their few globalist peers. Gary Cohn, the Goldman Sachs alumnus who advised Mr. Trump on economic policy, has departed. Peter Navarro, the stridently anti-China trade adviser, has gained influence. Since then, Mr. Trump has antagonized core allies with tariffs on steel and aluminum while raising the specter of a trade war with China.

But the United States is far from the only power tearing at the foundations of the postwar order.

Britain is abandoning the European Union, turning its back on the project whose very existence is an expression of faith that integration discourages hostilities. Italy just elevated two populist political parties that nurse historical animosities against the bloc.

Poland and Hungary, once viewed as triumphs of democracy flowering in post-Soviet soil, have shackled the media, cracked down on public gatherings, and attacked the independence of their court systems.

This re-emergence of authoritarian impulses has undercut a central thrust of European policy since the end of the Cold War. Expanding NATO and the European Union by bringing in Eastern European nations was supposed to have prompted the newcomers to adopt the liberal democratic values of their fellow members. Things went differently.

China has used its economic power — enhanced by its entry to the W.T.O. in 2001 — to reinforce the authority of a state still controlled by the Communist Party. This, too, has dashed hopes that China’s integration into the global economy would lead to its democratization.

And Russia, which joined the trading organization in 2012, has since intensified a foreign policy that is centered on confrontation.

For anyone still inclined to believe that liberal democracy is the inevitable outgrowth of human progress — an outcome hastened by the postwar institutions — these events have provided a sobering rejoinder.

“What we are returning to is great power politics,” said Derek Shearer, a former American ambassador to Finland during the Clinton administration and the director of the McKinnon Center for Global Affairs at Occidental College in Los Angeles.

The causes of this turn vary from country to country, but a common element is public distrust of institutions amid a sense that the masses have been abandoned.

In the United States and Britain, working people have suffered joblessness and declining living standards while political leaders have prescribed policies that have enriched the elite — more trade deals, fewer strictures on bankers. These countries’ economies have been bolstered by trade, but not enough of the gains have filtered down to working people.

Even as China has violated trade rules, subsidizing state-owned companies and stealing innovations from foreign investors, commerce across the Pacific has lifted the American economy. But American leaders have failed to deliver job training and other programs that might have cushioned the blow for communities hurt by imports.

“Many people in Europe and the United States have not benefited very much from overall economic growth over the past few decades, and they are naturally skeptical of the policies and leaders in place,” said Douglas W. Elmendorf, dean of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. “But the solution is not to throw out the liberal order. It is to complement it with government policies that allow people to share in the benefits.”

Economic threats have combined with rising nativist inclinations to amplify hostility toward power centers.

In Poland, Hungary, Britain and Italy, distrust of the European Union reflects public anger at its liberal immigration policies, and an influx of people from Muslim countries. In the United States, Mr. Trump has found support among those inclined to blame immigrants for joblessness, and Muslims for security threats.

Mr. Trump’s trademarks — “Make America Great Again,” and “America First” — underscore his forsaking of his country’s traditional commitment to collective ideals.

When he bypassed the World Trade Organization last week to slap tariffs on some $60 billion in Chinese imports, Mr. Trump reinforced his scorn for multilateralism as the province of weak-kneed sentimentalists. He appears to subscribe to the notion that the United States, the largest economy on earth, must unabashedly pursue its self-interest, free of constraints like naïve reverence for the rules of the global trading system.

In Europe, Mr. Trump’s willingness to flout trade rules has combined with his denunciation of the Paris climate accord and his equivocal support for NATO to force questions about America’s reliability.

“The U.S. was always seen as a stabilizing force within the post-World War II order,” said Ms. Crespy of the Free University Brussels. “From a European perspective, the shock comes from the fact that the U.S. is now seen as a destabilizing force, like Russia, and ironically making China look more moderate.”

The institutions created after World War II have never lacked for critics — or instances of failing to live up to lofty rhetoric.

The International Monetary Fund has long provoked criticism that it caters to the investor class while imposing austerity on ordinary people in crisis-hit countries. Trade deals have been crafted to advance the interests of politically connected special interests. Labor groups have accused the European Union of harboring an unhealthy obsession for avoiding budget deficits at the expense of jobs. Democratic convictions have not stopped the West from supporting authoritarian regimes in pursuit of their own strategic goals.

But if the justice of the liberal order has been contentious, now its basic endurance appears in question.

In the early 1990s, shortly after the Berlin Wall came down and the West claimed victory in the Cold War, Francis Fukuyama, a Stanford University political scientist, famously suggested that the global arrangement of power had reached its conclusion.

“What we may be witnessing is not just the end of the Cold War, or the passing of a particular period of postwar history, but the end of history,” Mr. Fukuyama wrote in a book that took that provocative phrase as its title. “That is, the end point of mankind’s ideological evolution and the universalization of Western liberal democracy as the final form of human government.”

Thinkers across the ideological spectrum excoriated Mr. Fukuyama for penning history’s premature obituary. Some accused him of evangelizing for American power. Others would say he was blind to the threat of radical Islamist terrorism, the resurgence of Russia, and the ascendance of China.

Last year, with Mr. Trump assuming office, Britain leaving Europe, and nationalists on the march, Mr. Fukuyama suggested a new obituary might be required — for the “liberal world order.”

More than a year into the Trump era, Mr. Fukuyama has only grown more alarmed.

“What you’re seeing now is really insidious, because it’s coming from within democracies,” he said in an interview. “It’s not just the U.S., but Hungary, Turkey, Poland and Russia, where you have a democratically elected leader who is trying to dismantle the liberal parts of liberal democracy. We are seeing a new type of threat that I don’t really think we’ve seen in my lifetime.”

History is still running. New leaders may be capable of delivering policies that could restore faith in internationalism. Yet for now, the globalists who have long dominated are losing ground to a thriving nationalist insurgency.

“Trump is weakening the United States at a crucial time,” said Mr. Shearer, the former ambassador to Finland. “It’s more important than ever that the U.S. be strong and united and stand up for the values we claim to stand for. This ‘America First, Go It Alone,’ is so wrongheaded. It’s bad for us, and bad for the world.”

STOCKHOLM — Something was wrong with the Penguins, the incoming class of toddlers at the Seafarer’s Preschool, in a wooded suburb south of Stockholm.

The boys were clamorous and physical. They shouted and hit. The girls held up their arms and whimpered to be picked up. The group of 1- and 2-year-olds had, in other words, split along traditional gender lines. And at this school, that is not O.K.

Their teachers cleared the room of cars and dolls. They put the boys in charge of the play kitchen. They made the girls practice shouting “No!” Then they decided to open a proper investigation, erecting video cameras in the classroom.

Science may still be divided over whether gender differences are rooted in biology or culture, but many of Sweden’s government-funded preschools are doing what they can to deconstruct them. State curriculum urges teachers and principals to embrace their role as social engineers, requiring them to “counteract traditional gender roles and gender patterns.”

It is normal, in many Swedish preschools, for teachers to avoid referring to their students’ gender — instead of “boys and girls,” they say “friends,” or call children by name. Play is organized to prevent children from sorting themselves by gender. A gender-neutral pronoun, “hen,” was introduced in 2012 and was swiftly absorbed into mainstream Swedish culture, something that, linguists say, has never happened in another country.

Exactly how this teaching method affects children is still unclear.

One of the few peer-reviewed efforts to examine the method’s effects, published last year in the Journal of Experimental Child Psychology, concluded that some behaviors do go away when students attend what the study called “gender-neutral” preschools.

For instance, the children at these schools do not show a strong preference for playmates of the same gender, and are less likely to make assumptions based on stereotypes. Yet, the scientists found no difference at all in the children’s tendency to notice gender, suggesting that may be under a genetic influence.

At the Seafarer’s Preschool, the effort sometimes has the feeling of a venture into uncharted territory.

On a recent Friday in Hammarbyhojden, south of Stockholm, Elis Storesund, the school’s in-house gender expert, sat bent over a work sheet with two teachers of the 4- and 5-year-old Seagulls, reviewing their progress on gender objectives.

“When we are drawing,” said Melisa Esteka, 31, one of the teachers, “we see that the girls — they draw a lot — they draw girls with lots of makeup and long eyelashes. It’s very clear that they are girls. We ask, ‘Don’t boys have eyelashes?’ And they say, ‘We know it is not like that in real life.’”

Ms. Storesund, 54, nodded thoughtfully. “They are trying to understand what it is to be a girl,” she said.

Ms. Esteka looked frustrated. She had set a goal for herself: To stop the children from identifying things as “for girls” or “for boys.” But lately, her students were absorbing stereotypes from billboards and cartoons, and sometimes it seemed like all the slow, systematic work of the Seafarer’s Preschool was flying away overnight.

“There is so much they bring with them,” she said. “They bring the whole world with them. We can’t stop that from happening.”

Sweden’s experiment in gender-neutral preschools began in 1996 in Trodje, a small town near the edge of the Baltic Sea. The man who started it, Ingemar Gens, was not an educator but a journalist who dabbled in anthropology and gender theory, having studied Swedish men seeking mail-order brides in Thailand. Newly appointed as a district “equal opportunity expert,” Mr. Gens wanted to break down the norm of stoic, unemotional Swedish masculinity.

Preschool struck him as the right place to do this. Swedish children spend much of their early life in government-funded preschools, which offer care at nominal cost for up to 12 hours a day starting at the age of 1.

Two schools rolled out what was called a compensatory gender strategy. Boys and girls at the preschools were separated for part of the day and coached in traits associated with the other gender. Boys massaged each other’s feet. Girls were led in barefoot walks in the snow, and told to throw open the window and scream.

“We tried to do that — to educate boys in what girls already knew, and vice versa,” said Mr. Gens, now 68. A wave of criticism broke over him, but that was expected.

“They said we were indoctrinating the kids,” he said. “I say we’re always indoctrinating kids. Bringing them up is indoctrination.”

Teachers were required to review videotapes of themselves with the children, to identify subtle differences in the way they interacted with boys and girls. Many found that they used more words, and more complex sentences, with girls.

Helena Baggstrom, who taught at one of the schools, recalled watching footage of herself in a cloakroom, attending to children as they bundled up to go outside. She saw, to her shock, that she had helped one boy after another get dressed and run out the door. The girls, she realized, were expected to dress themselves.

“It was hard at first to see patterns,” she said. “We saw more and more, and we were horrified at what we saw.”

The strategy of separating boys and girls was later set aside in favor of a “gender neutral” approach intent on muting differences. Still, the spirit of Mr. Gens’s experiment had percolated through the government. In 1998, Sweden added new language to its national curriculum requiring that all preschools “counteract traditional gender roles and gender patterns” and encourage children to explore “outside the limitations of stereotyped gender roles.” Adoption of the practices varies widely, depending on the school’s director.

Traditionalists have raised occasional protests, complaining of liberal brainwashing. The far-right Sweden  Democrats party, which won about 13 percent of the vote in 2014, has promised to roll back teaching that “seeks to change all children and young people’s behavior and gender identity.”

But in a political environment deeply split over immigration, gender-equality policies enjoy the support of Sweden’s largest parties, the center-left Social Democrats and the center-right Moderates.

A columnist and mathematician named Tanja Bergkvist, one of the few figures who routinely attacks what she calls “Sweden’s gender madness,” says many Swedes are uncomfortable with the practice but are afraid to criticize it in public.

“They don’t want to be regarded as against equality,” she said. “Nobody wants to be against equality.”

In Trodje, the first wave of preschoolers to attend gender-neutral preschools are now 20-somethings.

Elin Gerdin, 26, part of that first wave, is studying to be a teacher. In appearance she is conventionally feminine, her long dark hair coaxed into spirals with a curling iron. This is something she points out — that in appearance she is conventionally feminine. It is the first sign that she views gender as something you could put on or take off, like a raincoat.

“This is a choice I have made because this is me,” she said of her appearance. “And this is me because I am a product of society.”

There are moments when her early education comes back to her in flashes.

Ms. Gerdin’s friends have begun to have babies, and they post pictures of them on Facebook, swathed in blue or pink, in society’s first act of sorting. Ms. Gerdin gets upset when this happens. She feels sorry for the children. She makes it a point to seek her friends out and tell them, earnestly, that they are making a mistake. This feels to her like a responsibility.

“We are a group of children who will grow up, and we will have children, and we will talk to them about this,” she said. “It is not easy to change a whole society.”

That process was just beginning at the Seafarer’s Preschool on a recent morning, when the children scrambled out of voluminous snowsuits. Underneath his, Otto, a sturdy 3-year-old, was wearing a dress.

Otto prefers to wear dresses because he likes the way they fan out when he spins around, and it does not make him unusual here. Up until now, no one in Otto’s life — not his grandparents, or babysitters, or fellow 3-year-olds — has told him that boys do not wear dresses, said his mother, Lena Christiansson, 36, matter-of-factly. She would like this to continue as long as possible.

This expectation has become increasingly common, said Ms. Storesund, the Seafarer’s gender specialist.

“Now, parents ask us, ‘What are you doing about gender?’” she said.

Ms. Storesund is on hand to confront classroom dilemmas: When boys in the group for 3-year-olds refused to paint, or dance, and the group threatened to split along gender lines, she was brought in to unpack the problem, tinkering with the activities until she coaxed the boys back to equal participation.

Preserving a gender-neutral environment is not simple. Carina Sevebjork Saur, 57, who has been teaching at the school for a year and a half, said she often catches herself saying the wrong thing, like an offhand compliment on a child’s appearance.

“You are on your way to saying something, as a reflex, but you have to hold it back,” she said. “You can comment on clothes in other ways: ‘Oh, my goodness, how many polka dots!’”

The effort is compensated, teachers said, by the impression that they are unraveling mysteries, and as spring approached, some changes could be observed among the Penguins.

One of the group’s teachers, Izabell Sandberg, 26, noticed a shift in a 2-year-old girl whose parents dropped her off wearing tights and pale-pink dresses. The girl focused intently on staying clean. If another child took her toys, she would whimper.

“She accepted everything,” Ms. Sandberg said. “And I thought this was very girlie. It was like she was apologizing for taking up space.”

Until, that is, a recent morning, when the girl had put a hat on and carefully arranged bags around herself, preparing to set off on an imaginary expedition. When a classmate tried to walk off with one of her bags, the girl held out the palm of her hand and shouted “No” at such a high volume that Ms. Sandberg’s head swiveled around.

It was something they had been practicing.

By the time March rolled round, the girl had gotten so loud that she drowned out the boys in the class, Ms. Sandberg said. At the end of the day, she was messy. The girl’s parents were less than delighted, she said, and reported that she had become cheeky and defiant at home.

But Ms. Sandberg has plenty of experience explaining the mission to parents.

“This is what we do here, and we are not going to stop it,” she said.

WASHINGTON — President Trump, hours after threatening to veto a $1.3 trillion spending bill and throwing the capital into turmoil, signed it into law on Friday, yielding to advisers and Republican leaders who urged him against manufacturing a government shutdown crisis.

Even as he signed the bill, the president seethed about being forced to swallow legislation that broadly repudiated an agenda that once foresaw the reshaping of the federal government into his “America First” image.

Enactment of the bipartisan spending package, which had seemed like a certainty at dawn, brought an end to hours of chaos at the White House, where Mr. Trump surprised his advisers — and Republican congressional leaders — with an angry morning tweet threatening to sink a measure that his aides had already promised he would sign.

His stated reason was its lack of funding for his promised border wall, but that was only one disappointment for the president in a measure that blocked the hiring of thousands of new border patrol agents; stopped deep cuts to foreign aid, the diplomatic corps and environmental programs; thwarted a push to fund vouchers for private and parochial schools; and even rescued the National Endowments for the Arts and the Humanities.

“There are a lot of things that I’m unhappy about in this bill,” Mr. Trump said during a hastily called event at the White House, where the president placed his hand on a foot-high copy of the 2,232-page bill he said he had just signed. “There are a lot of things that we shouldn’t have had in this bill. But we were, in a sense, forced — if we want to build our military — we were forced to have. There are some things that we should have in the bill.”

In a rambling and disjointed statement from the Diplomatic Reception Room, Mr. Trump called the process that yielded the legislation “this ridiculous situation,” and he warned, “I will never sign another bill like this again — I’m not going to do it again.”

The dramatic denouement for the spending bill, which drew fury from Mr. Trump’s core supporters, left both political parties in Washington reeling and some of his own aides bewildered about the president’s contradictory actions. Yet it was only the latest instance of Mr. Trump chafing against the advice of his advisers and throwing his own brand of chaos into the gears of the federal government.

Mr. Trump’s grudging embrace only highlighted the degree to which a president who portrays himself as the ultimate dealmaker has been sidelined by congressional leaders in both parties when it comes to striking compromises to fund the core functions of government. Instead, Mr. Trump has proved unable to find a way to negotiate victories on some of his highest priorities.

Ardent conservatives who are Mr. Trump’s core backers were left wondering aloud whether the president’s capitulation and failures would imperil Republicans’ chances of keeping control of Congress in the midterm elections this fall. Amy Kremer, a Tea Party activist who helped founded Women for Trump, tweeted, “I’m done.”

“Democrats just won November #midterms. No point in wasting my time between now and then,” Ms. Kremer wrote.

Mr. Trump said the spending plan was important because it includes hundreds of billions of dollars in military spending to ensure that the United States has “by far the strongest military in the world.”

“We had no choice but to fund our military,” Mr. Trump declared, reading aloud a series of military programs and weapons systems in the spending bill, including submarines, missile defense systems, tanks, helicopters and warships.

But in a bizarre version of the usually upbeat bill-signing ceremonies at the White House, Mr. Trump then went on to denigrate the legislation as “crazy.”

“Nobody read it,” Mr. Trump said of the gargantuan funding measure drawn up by Republican and Democratic leaders in the House and the Senate. Echoing criticism from those who voted against it, Mr. Trump added, “It’s only hours old.”

He urged lawmakers to avoid passage of another so-called omnibus bill and to instead pass legislation giving him a line-item veto of spending measures, something that the Supreme Court has already ruled to be unconstitutional. He also called on the Senate to eliminate filibusters.

“I looked very seriously at the veto,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “I was thinking about doing the veto.”

If he had, it would almost certainly have shut down the government at midnight, just as hundreds of thousands of teenagers and adults were scheduled to descend on Washington for a gun control march on Saturday. With Congress on spring recess for two weeks starting Monday, many lawmakers had already departed Washington and some were on their way out of the country as part of official congressional delegations.

The spending measure cleared Congress early Friday morning and, while Mr. Trump had made plain he was unhappy with some aspects of it, his senior advisers spent Thursday telling reporters that he would sign it. Then early Friday, on a morning when he watched a fierce backlash to the measure play out on Fox News, Mr. Trump seemed to hesitate, tweeting angrily about the lack of wall funding.

“I am considering a VETO of the Omnibus Spending Bill based on the fact that the 800,000 plus DACA recipients have been totally abandoned by the Democrats (not even mentioned in Bill) and the BORDER WALL, which is desperately needed for our National Defense, is not fully funded,” Mr. Trump wrote.

He was referring partly to the fact that he failed to reach a deal with Democrats to include provisions in the spending measure that would preserve Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that Mr. Trump rescinded last fall. The program allows undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children to apply for permits to work legally and avoid deportation.

But the president was most angry about the lack of funding in the bill for an enormous wall across the nation’s southern border that he has billed as the centerpiece of his crackdown on illegal immigration. The measure includes nearly $1.6 billion for border security, including new technology and repairs to existing barriers — but not Mr. Trump’s wall, as he claimed on Twitter on Wednesday.

It provides $641 million for about 33 miles of new fencing, but prohibits building a concrete structure or other prototypes the president has considered.

Mr. Trump’s morning tweet set off a scramble on Capitol Hill and at the White House. Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin, phoned Mr. Trump and encouraged him to sign the measure, according to a source familiar with the call, citing all the “wins” contained in the bill, especially for the military.

The president’s top advisers rushed to bring in Jim Mattis, the secretary of defense, to make the case to Mr. Trump that he must sign the legislation because of its robust military funding. Within hours, Mr. Mattis was in the Oval Office with Mr. Trump telling him the level of military spending was “historic,” according to a senior White House official. Vice President Mike Pence, who had postponed a trip to deal with the crisis, also chimed in to make a case for signing the bill.

The president relented. In his remarks not long after, Mr. Trump expressed disappointment and said he was “not happy” that the bill did not allocate the full $25 billion that the administration had requested for the wall. But he sought to claim some measure of victory, saying that $1.6 billion “does start the wall” and promising to “make that $1.6 billion go very, very far.”

The political whiplash that he had put Washington through was reflected in Mr. Trump’s own comments. At times, he seemed to direct blame for the spending bill on Republican lawmakers. But later, he praised them for doing their best in a tough situation.

“I just want to thank members of Congress for working so hard,” he said. “There are a lot of strings pulling everyone in different directions.”

The president’s threat came as a surprise but hardly a shock to Republican leaders, who spent much of a snowy Wednesday privately imploring an agitated Mr. Trump to put aside his objections and back the measure, claiming it as a win.

Sensing a political advantage, Democrats were unperturbed by Mr. Trump’s veto threat fire drill. Top Democratic aides said on Friday morning that they would not make concessions to Mr. Trump if he chose to reject the legislation, but lawmakers stayed silent until the president signed the bill. Then they cheered the measure as a disavowal of Mr. Trump’s ideas.

“In sharp contrast to the devastating cuts called for in the Trump budget, the omnibus contains robust funding to combat homelessness, create new affordable housing and promote community development,” Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California and the minority leader, said in a statement. She added, “The omnibus also rejects the Trump administration’s cruel anti-immigrant agenda.”

Mr. Trump said on Friday afternoon that it was Democrats who had balked at including an extension of DACA in the spending bill, claiming that Republicans wanted to protect immigrants from deportation but were blocked by Democrats.

In fact, over the weekend, the White House offered to extend protections for hundreds of thousands of current DACA recipients for two and a half years, with no guarantee beyond that time, in exchange for $25 billion for the border wall, according to congressional aides.

Democrats countered by saying they would agree to the full $25 billion only if the president agreed to a pathway to citizenship for a much broader population of young immigrants brought to the country illegally as children, well over a million people — a deal that was similar to an earlier offer from Mr. Trump.

The White House rejected the Democratic offer.

The faces of Quebec are as eclectic as the province itself. I recently spent 10 days on the road rediscovering Quebec, where I was born, after nearly three decades living away. Here are some of the people I met along the way, including an Algonquin D.J., the doorman at Quebec City’s grandest hotel, a 27-year-old left-wing separatist leader, a 91-year-old conservationist and a detective novelist.

Cory Whiteduck is reclaiming the Algonquin language — one word at a time. For decades, being Indigenous was stigmatized in Canada, and the various languages used by Indigenous people were made taboo at so-called residential schools, where Indigenous children were sent to be assimilated.

So, every day, Cory goes on the air at CKWE radio and utters one Algonquin word. Just one. On the day I visited, the word of the day was “migwan,” which means feather in Algonquin.

“I invited some elders to the studio and they were afraid to speak Algonquin publicly,” Cory said. “We need to change that.”

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

To unearth the secrets of Quebec City, I turned to Richard Linteau, the avuncular doorman at the Château Frontenac who has worked at the grand hotel for 29 years.

Overlooking the frozen Saint Lawrence River, the hotel has been a fixture of the city stretching back to 1893. It has been the setting of a Hitchcock film (“I Confess”), was host to Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II and, three weeks ago, was hostto Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

Richard, whose father-in-law also worked at the hotel, was a talented hockey player before he traded in his hockey stick for a doorman’s cap. “I hear and see everything but hear and see nothing,” he said with a mischievous smile.

Richard said the strangest request he had ever received was from a New Yorker, who asked him to rent a tow truck to take his car around town during a snowstorm. He didn’t want its tires to touch snow. “Then he drove back to New York.”

Quebecers, he added, are a hospitable bunch. “I am not sure about Paris or New York, but if you fall on the floor here, a Quebecer will come pick you up.”

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

In Quebec City, the windows of the main mosque are still pocked with bullet holes. This week I met there with Mohamed Labidi, the director of the mosque where six people were killed by a Quebecois shooter more than a year ago.

Speaking after prayers at the mosque, where dozens of worshipers from North Africa, Africa and the Middle East knelt on the floor, Mohamed said many Muslims were still reeling from the attack. He said it had deeply shocked him and underlined some growing fissures in Quebec society.

Last year Mohamed’s car was lit on fire in front of his home after he sought to build a cemetery for the Muslim community. But he says he is undeterred.

“The situation for us has gotten worse over the past decade,” he said. “It has taken blood to flow for us to build bridges again.”

Join the conversation on Facebook here.

Dozens of readers urged me to meet Louise Penny, the best-selling detective novelist and an Anglophone who conjures up French-speaking Québécois characters. Her police detective, Armand Gamache, has become to Quebec what Hercule Poirot is to Belgium.

So it was that I found myself having a lively coffee-fueled chat with Louise in the snow-covered town of Knowlton, in the Eastern Townships. Sleepy, bucolic Knowlton inspired the fictional Three Pines of her novels, where her likeable and inquisitive Chief Inspector Armand Gamache excavates the town’s dark secrets. After 13 books in the series, Louise noted wryly that Three Pines had struggled to “sustain the murder count.”

Louise’s novels were translated into 23 languages before they were finally translated into Quebec French in 2010, partly reflecting the cultural divide in the province.

“My books are love letters to Quebec — the language of my characters is French and I wanted my characters to live in that language,” Louise said. “The translation meant so much to me because I wanted my friends and neighbors to be able to read them.”

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

Cezin Nottaway learned how to kill and skin a beaver at age 5. She is as at home in the forest as she is running her catering company. She is part of a rising generation of Indigenous cooks and scholars trying to preserve and spread the food culture of their ancestors.

Speaking on her Algonquin reserve of Kitigan Zibi, near Maniwaki, Quebec, Cezin told me she had been shaken to the core by the recent case of Colten Boushie, a young Cree man shot dead by a white farmer in Saskatchewan who was found not guilty of murder.

“I had thought we were making progress, but the verdict made me sad and angry,” she told me. “I’ve warned my son never to trespass anywhere, I’ve told my daughter never to be vulnerable. There is no justice for Indigenous people in Canada.”

In a community plagued by drugs and alcohol, Cezin and her husband, Wesley, are notable success stories. Wesley was a drug dealer who will soon prescribe medicine as a doctor when he finishes McGill Medical School.

How did he transform his life? Cezin explains. “I told him: ‘Enough is enough! What do you choose, drugs or your family?’”

Many young people I spoke to here credited strong women — mothers, wives, grandmothers — for changing their lives.

Wesley jokes that not listening to Cezin wasn’t really an option.

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

By Day 5 of my road trip, it was time for a beer break. And so I made my way to Shawinigan, in central Quebec, at the red-neon-lit brewery of Le Trou du Diable (The Devil’s Hole), with Isaac Tremblay, the laid-back founder of one of Quebec’s most successful microbreweries.

Isaac, a former film technician on movie sets, first conceived of the idea for the brewery at age 25 with a group of friends from Shawinigan. He named it after a mythical bottomless caldron at the base of Shawinigan waterfall that leads straight to hell (he wrote his business plan on set during breaks). Isaac likes to draw, and his beer labels feature intricate narratives and psychedelic colors.

Many readers urged me to visit a microbrewery because beer is such a part of Quebec’s social fabric. Quebec’s first brewery, the Brasserie du Roi, was established in 1668 by Jean Talon, the chief administrator after the French colonized Quebec. Today, there are roughly 150 microbreweries in the province, reflecting an appetite for local producers, and artisanal beer.

Over a dinner of beef tartare and a citrus and coriander-infused pint of Blanche de Shawi beer, Isaac noted that, in this former pulp and paper industrial region, the “taverne” has long been a place that marked the end of a factory shift, a place for beer-fueled political banter and letting loose. “Quebec is a melting pot of France, Britain and Irish immigration, and drinking beer is part of its bon vivant spirit,” he said.

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

Shady Hafez is the son of an Algonquin mother and a Syrian Muslim immigrant father. He grew up between Ottawa and Kitigan Zibi.

After completing an undergraduate degree in law and Canadian studies, he is completing a master’s in Indigenous governance so that he can serve his community. His demand? That Canada give Indigenous people back their stolen land so they can finance their own institutions.

“If you move people off their land and oppress them,” he said, “don’t be surprised when they develop drinking problems.”

To unwind, he sings and dances and is learning how to hunt. Asked the secret of his success, he credited his strict Muslim paternal grandparents.

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

Gabriel Nadeau-Dubois is a proud left-winger, who compares his politics to that of Bernie Sanders, Jeremy Corbyn or Jean-Luc Mélenchon. He was one of the leaders of the 2012 “Maple Spring,” the huge student protests against an increase in university tuition fees that galvanized a generation of young Quebecois. He is also unrepentant about Quebec pursuing its national sovereignty.

“Quebec needs to change the rules of the game, and that is not possible when Canada is based on a system in which Queen Elizabeth is the head of state and the constitutional system is centuries old,” he told me over a coffee in Rosemont-La Petite-Patrie, a gentrifying working-class neighborhood. It is part of the district he represents in the province’s National Assembly as one of three members from his left-wing party, Quebec Solidaire.

While he acknowledged that the separatist movement was “not at its peak,” he stressed that about 30 percent of Quebecois supported an independent Quebec, according to recent polls.

Join the conversation on Instagram here.

In 1954, 27-year-old Phyllis Lambert wrote an eight-page, single-spaced letter to her father, Samuel Bronfman, head of the Seagram distillery empire. Her father planned to build a new headquarters in New York, and the banality of the proposed building filled her with dread.

“Dearest Daddy,” the letter began. “No, No, No, No, No,” she wrote, outlining with a mixture of passion and analytical verve why her father had a civic responsibility to build a memorable building that would change the world. The result — the towering Seagram Building on New York’s Park Avenue — transformed 20th-century architecture.

Phyllis took charge of its construction, choosing the modernist Ludwig Mies van der Rohe as its architect. Among its innovations, Phyllis noted, the building had a 90-foot-deep marble and granite plaza, breaking up the city’s plodding uniformity.

“It changed New York,” she told me over tea in her kitchen in a triplex in Old Montreal with a dramatic skylight, an interior elevator and playful modern Canadian art.

Phyllis has brought that same determination to her native Montreal. She is the city’s most important conservationist, even if that has meant opposing projects financed by her own family. Among her crowning achievements, she helped found Heritage Montreal and founded the Canadian Center for Architecture, a pioneering global center for architecture. Acutely intelligent with an easy sense of humor, she shows little signs of slowing down and recently curated an exhibition about Montreal’s historic greystones.

“I never wanted to be bored,” she said.

Join the conversation on Facebook here.

(Reuters) - A power outage at messaging app Telegram's server cluster is causing connection issues for users in Europe, Middle East and CIS countries, the app said in a Twitter post on Thursday.

The company is working to fix the issue and expects power to be back up very soon, Telegram founder Pavel Durov tweeted on Thursday.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur)

(Reuters) - Apparel retailer and tailoring services provider Moss Bros Group Plc on Tuesday reported a drop in annual profit due on tough retail environment and supply issues and said retail comparable sales in the start of the new financial year also declined.

The group's profit before tax fell 6.1 percent to 6.7 million pounds for the year ended Jan. 27, hurt by significant stock shortages and poor implementation of a project to consolidate suppliers, it said.

Retail like-for-like sales were down 6.7 percent in the first eight weeks of the new financial year, the retailer said.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Amrutha Gayathri)

JOHANNESBURG —  Following are the findings of the Cricket Australia investigation into the ball-tampering scandal as released in a statement on Wednesday:

The key finding from the investigation was that prior knowledge of the incident was confined to three players, Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft.

KEY FINDINGS:

Steve Smith, David Warner and Cameron Bancroft have been charged with a breach of Article 2.3.5 of the CA Code of Conduct, namely that their conduct:

(a) was contrary to the spirit of the game;

(b) was unbecoming of a representative or official;

(c) is or could be harmful to the interests of cricket; and/or  (d) did bring the game of cricket into disrepute.

In respect of the individual players concerned, Cricket Australia advises the following:

Steve Smith was charged with a breach of Article 2.3.5 of the CA Code of Conduct based on:

(a) knowledge of a potential plan to attempt to artificially alter the condition of the ball;

(b) failure to take steps to seek to prevent the development and implementation of that plan;

(c) directing that evidence of attempted tampering be concealed on the field of play;

(d) seeking to mislead Match Officials and others regarding Bancroft’s attempts to artificially alter the condition of the ball; and

(e) misleading public comments regarding the nature, extent and participants of the plan

David Warner was charged with a breach of Article 2.3.5 of the CA Code of Conduct based on:

(a) development of a plan to attempt to artificially alter the condition of the ball;

(b) instruction to a junior player to carry out a plan to take steps to attempt to artificially alter the condition of the ball using sandpaper;

(c) provision of advice to a junior player regarding how a ball could be artificially altered including demonstrating how it could be done;

(d) failure to take steps to seek to prevent the development and/or implementation of the plan;

(e) failure to report his knowledge of the plan at any time prior to or during the match;

(f) misleading Match Officials through the concealment of his knowledge of and involvement in the plan; and

(g) failure to voluntarily report his knowledge of the plan after the match

Cameron Bancroft was charged with a breach of Article 2.3.5 of the CA Code of Conduct based on:

(a) knowledge of the existence of, and being party to, the plan to attempt to artificially alter the condition of the ball using sandpaper;

(b) carrying out instructions to attempt to artificially alter the condition of the ball;

(c) seeking to conceal evidence of his attempts to artificially alter the condition of the ball;

(d) seeking to mislead Match Officials and others regarding his attempts to artificially alter the condition of the ball; and

(e) misleading public comments regarding the nature, extent, implementation and participants of the plan

SUMMARY OF SANCTIONS

The range of sanctions available to Cricket Australia under Article 2.3.5 are extensive. The CA Board determined sanctions that would be appropriate in each player's case, following their review of the report.

The Board has considered the recommendations and determined that the following sanctions will be offered to each player in accordance with the CA Code of Conduct process:

Steve Smith Suspension of 12 months from all international and domestic cricket

David Warner Suspension of 12 months from all international and domestic cricket

Cameron Bancroft Suspension of 9 months from all international and domestic cricket

All three players will be permitted to play club cricket and will be encouraged to do so to maintain links with the cricket community.

In addition, all three players will be required to undertake 100 hours of voluntary service in community cricket.

LEADERSHIP

Steve Smith and Cameron Bancroft will not be considered for team leadership positions until a minimum of 12 months after the conclusion of their respective suspensions from international and domestic cricket.

Any consideration of future leadership would be conditional on acceptance by fans and the public, form and authority among the playing group.

David Warner will not be considered for team leadership positions in the future.

(Editing by Christian Radnedge)

CAYCE, S.C. —  Officials have released the name of a man shot and killed by sheriff's deputies in South Carolina following an hours-long standoff on Interstate 26.

Lexington County Coroner Margaret Fisher said in a news release that 29-year-old Robert B. Shaw of West Columbia died after he was shot around 1:45 p.m. Wednesday.

Shaw led officers on a chase before his vehicle was disabled by tire-deflating strips. That led to a standoff that blocked traffic on the main route between Columbia and Charleston.

Sheriff Jay Koon said negotiations broke down and his officers fired when the suspect made a sudden move.

Four deputies have been placed on leave while the shooting is investigated. State Law Enforcement Division spokesman Thom Berry said West was white, as are all four deputies.

(Reuters) - Arbuthnot Banking Group on Wednesday reported an increase in full-year pretax profit, driven by a 38 percent surge in lending at its private banking arm.

Arbuthnot, which has its roots in 185-year-old private and commercial bank and wealth manager Arbuthnot Latham, said pretax profit increased to 7 million pounds from 0.2 million pounds a year earlier, and in-line with analysts expectations, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Pretax profit at Arbuthnot Latham rose 21 percent to 11 million pounds, while customer loans jumped 38 percent to 1.05 billion pounds

Arbuthnot Banking Group stuck to its optimistic stance over Britain's vote to leave the European Union, saying that the associated turmoil would create investment opportunities.

"The greater risk must be that of a hard left Labour government. This could have a significant impact on our clients and business," Chairman Henry Angest said in a statement.

(Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain in Bengaluru; Editing by Bernard Orr)

(Reuters) - British meat packer Hilton Food Group on Wednesday said revenue rose over 10 percent in 2017 as recent tie-ups and an acquisition helped it notch higher sales volume for the period.

The company, which supplies to supermarkets such as Tesco, Ahold, Albert Heijn and ICA Grupen, said sales volumes rose 10.4 percent to 303,881 tonnes aided by the Seachill deal and on tie-ups with partners in Portugal and Australia.

Hilton bought Seachill - a UK-based fish processor - for 80.8 million pounds in October last year.

Sales volume in Portugal rose after the company entered into a joint venture with food retailer Sonae Modelo Continente in January, Hilton Food said.

The company is also restructuring its Australia joint venture with Woolworths and expects to take full ownership of its two existing plants there from July 1.

Revenue for the period rose 10.1 percent to 1.36 billion pounds, the company said.

Hilton said sales momentum has continued into 2018 and operating performance in the early months of 2018 has been in line with its expectations.

Shares in the company were trading 3.3 percent higher at 796 pence at 0716 GMT.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair)

(Reuters) - (This March 27 version of the story corrects paragraph 2 to say Humphrey Singer will remain at Dixons Carphone until July 2018 and will not leave at the end of this month. Also corrects spelling of company name in paragraph 5.)

Britain's largest electricals and mobile phone retailer, Dixons Carphone Plc, named on Tuesday cycle retailer Halfords Group Plc finance chief Jonny Mason as its finance director.

Dixons Carphone's current finance chief, Humphrey Singer, is set to remain in the role until July 2018 before joining clothing and food retailer Marks & Spencer.

Mason's is the second top executive appointment in a span of two months after the company said in January that its CEO and finance director had resigned.

Alex Baldock, the former chief executive of Shop Direct, was named Dixons Carphone CEO in January, replacing Sebastian James, who had quit to run the Boots retail chain in the UK.

In January, Dixons Carphone reported a 6 percent rise in underlying revenue for the 10 weeks to Jan. 6, beating analysts' forecast, as it expanded market share in electricals and on strong demand for the new iPhone.

Shares of Dixons Carphone were up about 1 percent in morning trading on the London Stock Exchange.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Amrutha Gayathri)

(Reuters) - Britain's largest electricals and mobile phone retailer, Dixons Carphone Plc, named on Tuesday cycle retailer Halfords Group Plc finance chief Jonny Mason as its finance director.

Dixons Carphone's current finance chief, Humphrey Singer, is set to leave the company at the end of this month to join clothing and food retailer Marks & Spencer.

Mason's is the second top executive appointment in a span of two months after the company said in January that its CEO and finance director had resigned.

Alex Baldock, the former chief executive of Shop Direct, was named Dixons Carphone CEO in January, replacing Sebastian James, who had quit to run the Boots retail chain in the UK.

In January, Dixon Carphone reported a 6 percent rise in underlying revenue for the 10 weeks to Jan. 6, beating analysts' forecast, as it expanded market share in electricals and on strong demand for the new iPhone.

Shares of Dixons Carphone were up about 1 percent in morning trading on the London Stock Exchange.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Amrutha Gayathri)

(Reuters) - Constellation Brands Inc reported fourth-quarter sales and profit on Thursday above Wall Street estimates, driven by strong demand for high margin Corona and Modelo beers and expensive wines such as Meiomi.

The boost in demand for Mexican beers is a result of a growing Hispanic population, a demography the company has been focusing on to widen its consumer base. The strategy helped the company's sales beat estimates for the third straight year.

The Hispanic population is the second-fastest growing ethnic group in the United States and accounted for 18 percent of the total population in 2016, according to Pew Research Centre.

Beer sales, which accounted for about 77 percent of the net sales in the quarter, rose nearly 12 percent to $997.2 million.

Net sales rose 8.5 percent to $1.77 billion in the quarter, beating the analysts' estimate of $1.75 billion that the maker of Robert Mondavi wines and SVEDKA vodka was expected to generate.

To cater to the rising demand, Constellation, which imports most of its beers from Mexico, said it would spend $900 million in 2019 to expand capacity of its breweries in Ciudad Oberon that lies south of the border.

Constellation shares rose 3 percent on Thursday after the company said it would pay its Class A and Class B shareholders a 42 percent hike in dividend.

The stock is one of the top-performers compared with its peers over the past 12-months, rising nearly 40 percent.

The company is also on a drive to "premiumize" its portfolio and has added Craft beers such as Funky Buddha and Napa Valley winery Schrader Cellars, which sells wines for as much as $250 a bottle.

Constellation on Thursday forecast fiscal 2019 comparable earnings per share to be between $9.40 and $9.70. The mid-point was marginally below the Street's estimate of $9.58.

However, analysts said the company's forecasts are often conservative and are updated through the year.

Net income attributable to the company more than doubled to $925.5 million, or $4.64 per Class A share, in the quarter ended Feb.28, helped by a $363 million gain due to changes in the U.S. tax law.

Excluding items, the Victor, New-York based company earned $1.90 per share, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.74 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

(Reporting by Uday Sampath and Siddharth Cavale in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva and Arun Koyyur)

(Reuters) - Car dealership chain Inchcape Plc said on Monday it would buy family-run Grupo Rudelman, an automotive distribution business in Central America, as it looked to strengthen its presence in the emerging markets.

Inchcape, which trades in more than two dozen countries, will pay Grupo Rudelman's shareholders $284 million (£200.5 million), gaining access to the Suzuki-led distribution business in Costa Rica and Panama, the UK firm said in a statement.

Costa Rica and Panama present structural growth opportunities, given their low vehicle penetration rates and economic growth expectations, Inchcape said.

The deal comes nearly a month after Inchcape reported an over 38 percent rise in annual pretax profit, helped in part by a strong performance in Asia and emerging markets.

Inchcape said the acquisition of Grupo Rudelman, which sold 12,500 new Suzuki vehicles in 2017, would add to earnings in the first full year post-acquisition by mid-single digits in  percentage terms.

The cash-free and debt-free basis deal will also improve Inchcape's operating margin, it said.

Inchcape shares were up 1.2 percent at 680 pence as of 0811 GMT on the London Stock Exchange.

(Reporting by Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Amrutha Gayathri)

SPECIAL POST — All but one puzzle has been solved at the 2018 American Crossword Tournament, and the constructor Erik Agard leads the pack. With reigning champion Dan Feyer behind by 100 points, I wonder if this is the year we will see a major upset.

The standings after Puzzle 6 are:

1. Erik Agard, 9760

2. Dan Feyer, 9660

3. David Plotkin, 9585

4. Tyler Hinman, 1210

5. Joon Pahk, 9560

6. Stella Zawistowski, 9485

7. Andy Kravis, 9410

8. Francis Heaney, 9315

9. Glen Ryan, 9260

10. Emily O’Neill, 9235

This morning, Puzzle 7 is solved by all competitors and the top nine solvers will then go to the big boards for the final level A, B and C rounds.

I wish everyone the best of luck going into the finals, but most important, I hope those who came to the American Crossword Puzzle Tournament had fun.

Your thoughts?

Cassidy Chea Luitjen and Eric Yablong Minoff were married March 24 at Club Giraud in San Antonio. Mark R. Luitjen, a retired Texas state judge and the bride’s father, officiated at the event, which incorporated elements of Episcopal and Jewish wedding traditions.

The bride, 33, is a marketing manager at PepsiCo in New York. She graduated from Columbia. She also received a master's degree in decorative arts, design history and material culture studies from the Bard Graduate Center in New York.

She is the daughter of Dawna C. Luitjen and Mr. Luitjen of San Antonio. The bride’s mother serves on the board of Servants of the King, a nonprofit organization founded by the bride’s grandfather Kemper B. Crabb, with the mission to build churches, orphanages, schools and hospitals in Africa and India.

The groom, 34, works in New York as a senior specialist and head of sales in the collectors’ motorcars department at Bonhams, a privately owned British auction house. He graduated from Emory University.

He is a son of Alan Minoff of Wilmette, Ill., and the late Judy Yablong. The groom’s father retired as a vice president for mergers and acquisitions at Sears in Chicago. His mother worked in marketing at Butler Gum, also in Chicago.

The couple met in 2012 while working at Bonhams in New York.

(Reuters) - The inaugural UEFA Nations League will pay up to 76.25 million euros ($94 million) in solidarity and bonus fees to the 55 teams participating in the competition, European soccer's governing body said on Friday.

The 12 strongest teams based on UEFA rankings -- divided into four groups of three in League A -- will each receive 1.5 million euros in solidarity fees while each group winner will be given an additional 1.5 million euros as a bonus.

The four group winners from League A will then compete for the UEFA Nations League trophy next June and stand to gain a further 4.5 million if they win the title -- taking the maximum amount they can earn to 7.5 million euros, UEFA added.

League B teams can earn a maximum of 2 million euros while League C teams can pocket a maximum of 1.5 million euros. League D teams, the lowest tier of the competition, can earn a maximum of 1 million euros in solidarity and bonus fees.

The four-tier tournament that UEFA has introduced to replace international friendlies will run alongside the traditional European championship qualifiers.

Group matches in all four divisions will be played between September and November this year.

(Reporting by Shrivathsa Sridhar in Bengaluru; Editing by Toby Davis)

(Reuters) - Canada's Dollarama Inc reported a better-than-expected profit, driven by an increase in comparable sales as shoppers spent more at its dollar stores.

Same-store sales rose 5.5 percent in the quarter as shoppers continued to buy higher priced products and the discount retailer maintained its gross margin at 41.4 percent.

The profit beat comes in spite of slowing retail spending across Canada and a nearly 21 percent increase in minimum wage in its most populous province, Ontario beginning January.

Dollarama raised its capex outlook for fiscal 2019 to between C$150 million and C$160 million saying it expects to spend on expanding its distribution capacity and on automation. It had a previous view of C$110 million to C$120 million.

Several Canadian retailers like Alimentation Couche-Tard Inc and Loblaw Cos Ltd are looking to automation to mitigate the hit their bottom lines will take as provinces raise the minimum wage.

Dollarama opened 25 new stores during the quarter, bringing the total to 1,160.

The Montreal-based company's net earnings rose to C$162.8 million, or C$1.45 per share, in the quarter ended Jan. 29, from C$146.1 million, or C$1.24 per share, a year earlier.

Analysts on average had estimated the company to earn C$1.40 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Sales rose 9.8 pct to C$938.1 million.

The company said its board had approved a proposed 3-for-1 share split of its common shares.

It also said its founder Larry Rossy would step down as Chairman effective June 7 and would be succeeded by Stephen Gunn, who has been Dollarama's Lead Director since 2009.

Dollarama's shares were up 5 percent at $163.05 on the Toronto Stock Exchange.

(Reporting by Karan Nagarkatti in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Shailesh Kuber)

(Reuters) - GameStop Corp, the world's largest video game and gaming console retailer, reported revenue that beat analysts' estimates for the fourth straight quarter as sales of Nintendo Switch consoles remained strong.

The company's shares were up nearly 2 percent after the bell on Wednesday.

GameStop also reported a 12.2 percent jump in same-store sales, above analysts' average estimate of a 9.32 percent rise, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Sales in the company's core video game retail business, which makes up about 30 percent of revenue, rose 12.4 percent to $1.04 billion, while sales in its hardware business jumped nearly 45 percent to $844 million.

However, GameStop reported a net loss of $105.9 million, or $1.04 per share, in the fourth quarter ended Feb. 3, compared with a profit of $208.7 million, or $2.04 per share, a year earlier.

The quarter included asset impairment and other charges of $406.5 million, the company said.

Grapevine, Texas-based GameStop had warned it would take a charge in the range of $350 million to $400 million in the fourth quarter, mainly related to its technology brands business.

Excluding items, GameStop earned $2.02 per share, beating analysts average estimate of $1.97 per share.

Sales rose 15 percent to $3.50 billion, also above estimate of $3.27 billion.

(Reporting by Arjun Panchadar in Bengaluru; Editing by Sriraj Kalluvila)

UNITED NATIONS —  The United States told the United Nations on Monday that it was expelling 12 Russian U.N. diplomats because of action they had taken outside their official capacity that was an abuse of their privileges of residence.

U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Nikki Haley justified the action under a 1947 agreement that established the United Nations headquarters in New York.

"Here in New York, Russia uses the United Nations as a safe haven for dangerous activities within our own borders," Haley said in a statement.

The Russian mission to the United Nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment.

The United States said on Monday it would expel a total of 60 Russian diplomats - including the 12 at the U.N. - joining governments across Europe punishing the Kremlin for a nerve agent attack on a former Russian spy in Britain that they have blamed on Moscow.

The 12 were described by U.S. officials as intelligence officers and the move reflects U.S. concerns that Russian intelligence activities have been increasingly aggressive.

U.N. spokesman Farhan Haq said the United States specified that it was taking action under section 13 (b) of the U.N. headquarters agreement.

The section says that "in case of abuse of such privileges of residence by any such person in activities in the United States outside his official capacity" they will not be exempt from U.S. laws and regulations "regarding the continued residence of aliens."

It also says that any move to expel U.N. diplomats must be approved by the U.S. Secretary of State after consultation with either the country involved or the U.N. Secretary-General.

"Given the sensitivity of the matter, which is ongoing, we will not comment further at this stage other than to confirm that the Secretary-General will closely follow this matter and engage as appropriate with the governments concerned," Haq said.

(Reporting by Michelle Nichols; editing by Grant McCool)

(Reuters) - BlackBerry Ltd reported a fourth-quarter profit on Wednesday that beat analysts' estimates and said it expects strong billings at its high-margin software and services business for the full year.

The company, which reinvented itself after customers ditched its smartphones for Apple's iPhones and Android devices, said revenue from its enterprise software and services business rose about 19 percent to $108 million.

"Our strategy is working," Chief Executive Officer John Chen said on a morning conference call.

The company extended CEO Chen's contract earlier this month, and followed that up with two big deals in software security —  one with Jaguar Land Rover and the other with Microsoft.

BlackBerry, which had about 3,500 enterprise customer orders in the reported quarter, expects total company software and services billings to grow by double digits in 2019.

"BlackBerry's subscription revenue is coming up good. If billings are going up that means their models are transitioning very well to a subscription model," Global Equities Research's Trip Chowdhry told Reuters.

The company's quarterly profit beat was helped by higher margins on software and services sales. BlackBerry's gross margins rose to 76 percent of the revenue, from 60.1 percent a year earlier.

Excluding items, the Waterloo, Ontario-based company earned 5 cents per share. Analysts on average had expected the company to break even, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Net loss narrowed to $10 million, or 6 cents per share, in the fourth quarter ended Feb. 28, from $47 million, or 10 cents per share, a year earlier.

The company's revenue fell 18.5 percent to $233 million.

BlackBerry shares were down marginally on the Toronto Stock Exchange.

(Reporting by Taenaz Shakir in Bengaluru and Jim Finkle in Toronto; Editing by Shailesh Kuber and Shounak Dasgupta)

(Reuters) - Fizzy drinks maker A.G. Barr Plc posted an 8 percent rise in full-year revenue on Tuesday, "well ahead" of the market performance, but pointed to economic volatility and uncertainty from Britain's vote to leave the European Union.

The maker of popular Scottish soft drink Irn-Bru said revenue rose to 277.7 million pounds in 2017, from 257.1 million pounds a year earlier. Pretax profit climbed 4.2 percent to 44.9 million pounds.

The company said it grew its market share within the UK soft drinks sector.

"The UK economic landscape is expected to remain uncertain for business as a whole, with regulation, changing customer dynamics and consumer preferences adding further volatility for the soft drinks industry," CEO Roger White said.

A.G. Barr, based just outside Glasgow, said margins had been hurt by the continued weakness in sterling, hitting its input costs, particularly sugar and packaging which are priced in euros.

The company, which has been selling soft drinks in Britain since 1875, said it now expects up to 99 percent of its portfolio to contain less than 5 grams of sugar per 100ml before the implementation of the soft drinks industry levy next month.

This follows the British government's decision to impose a levy on makers of sugary drinks following an advocation from health campaigners.

A change in the secret recipe for A.G Barr's Irn Bru, a sticky-sweet fizzy beverage prized as a hangover cure and known as Scotland's second national drink, prompted outrage among its many devotees in January.

(Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain and Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Subhranshu Sahu)

(Reuters) - Walgreens Boots Alliance Inc's quarterly profit and sales beat analysts' estimates on Wednesday helped by higher prescription volumes, but concerns surrounding its retail business played on investors' minds.

Shares of the company that rose as much as 3.1 percent in early trading, pared gains to trade up just 0.3 percent at $66.56 later in the morning.

Like other drugstore chains, Walgreens is seeing a drop in customer visits to its retail stores, where it sells over-the-counter drugs and cosmetics, as purchases have now shifted online.

To stanch falling sales at retail - its front-end business - the company has focused on boosting sales through its prescription only pharmacy business by signing partnerships with pharmacy benefit managers such as Prime Therapeutics that has given it more than 20 million additional customers.

Walgreens is also pulling non-profitable items off shelves at its front-end stores and promoting store-brands to boost margins.

The efforts came at a cost - same-store sales at its retail stores fell 2.7 percent in the quarter, continuing a nearly two-year slide. Analysts had expected flat growth.

"The Street is panicked about poor retail activity, panicked about Amazon. When they don't quantify what the impact of their rationalization decisions (are), they shoot themselves in the foot. The stock should be up a lot more", Baird analyst Eric Coldwell told Reuters.

Walgreens said it did not see much of an uptick in prescription volumes during one the harshest flu-season in the United States in decades, surprising analysts who expected the rise in flu shots to have boosted sales significantly.

To simply say ‘flu was pretty normal’ and not quantify it was a big mistake," Coldwell added.

Same-store sales at its pharmacies rose 5.1 percent, but missed analysts expectations for a 5.4 percent rise, according to four analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

Walgreens filled 9.1 percent more prescriptions in the quarter, but that was mainly driven by customers seeking higher-priced specialty drugs.

Deerfield, Illinois-based Walgreens lifted its full-year adjusted earnings forecast to between $5.85 and $6.05 per share from between $5.45 and $5.70 per share. Analysts were estimating $5.78 per share for the year.

The raise in forecast reflects a $350 million tax benefit for fiscal year 2018, an increase of about $150 million from the company's previous estimate.

Excluding items, Walgreens earned $1.73 per share. Net sales rose 12 percent to $33.02 billion.

Analysts on average were expecting a profit of $1.55 per share on revenue of $32.19 billion.

(Reporting by Uday Sampath and Tamara Mathias in Bengaluru; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and Shailesh Kuber)

In the spirit of National Poetry Month, this Reader Idea illustrates one teacher’s delight in words — whether found in a New York Times travel piece on the making of haggis, in the verse of Robert Burns, or in the Modern Scots language his students use themselves.

Do you teach with The Times? Tell us about it here, or browse our full collection of Reader Ideas.

Or, invite your students to take part in our annual Found Poem Student Contest, which runs from March 28 to May 4 this year.

And if you’d like 22 more ideas for teaching and learning about poetry, visit this collection.

_________

Idea: A teacher in Scotland invites his students to play with poetic language in the style and spirit of Robert Burns, the national poet.

Teacher: Alan Gillespie

Grade Level and School: 12 to 14-year-olds at the Fernhill School in Glasgow, Scotland

Why We Chose It: With the use of just one Times article, this teacher reworks the customary Robert Burns school assignment (“rote-learning poems about mice and lice”) and, instead, has his students revel in language new and old, making the famous “Burns Stanza” their own.

_________

Every January pupils across Scotland are besieged with lessons and assemblies about Robert Burns, our national poet, in honor of Burns Night.

It’s a legitimate and important landmark that young people should be aware of and celebrate, but I’ve always been a little uncertain about how we, as teachers, go about it. I was never sure what exactly students were meant to be getting out of all these recitals and Tartan Days.

Why are they rote-learning poems about mice and lice? Are they just celebrating Burns for the sake of celebration itself? What skills are they actually learning and developing that they can relate to and build upon?

Well, over 200 years since Burns’s death, the rich Scots language that he used can be pretty intimidating to decipher. A lot of pupils can indeed recite whole chunks from his Greatest Hits — “To a Mouse,” “Tam o’ Shanter,” “Auld Lang Syne” — but I doubt they could tell you what all the words actually mean. What is a syne anyway? I wanted to try and do something a little more relatable with my class, to try and teach them a few things that they might be able to put to use in future lessons or in later life.

To do this I needed a stimulus, and this fabulous piece of travel writing from 2014 was perfect: “In Scotland, Guts, Glory and Haggis.”

It focuses on one of Burns’s most celebrated topics — the mysterious and elusive haggis — and gives pupils a modern insight, written in an engaging style. I used this article as the launch pad and inspiration for these lessons.

To simply read, memorize and recite Burns’s poems felt pretty one-dimensional to me. I thought it was far more useful for students to play about with the language that he used, and the structure of his poetry, but also to write in their own register — which could be described as a pretty standard form of English with a smattering of regional colloquialisms.

Why write exclusively in the language of Burns when students have their own evolving, intricate modern Scots instead? I wanted to make use of both, and to do this I provided a glossary of 10 fabulously expressive Scots words used today (bauchle, blether, dreich, fankle, gallus, mooch, pockle, slitter, wabbit, wheescht), but also spoke to the class about how they spoke and what regional phrases they had in their armory.

Below, the lesson sequence. Notes to students are in italics, followed by my own notes on what happened in class.

_________

Learning Intentions:

● To understand how haggis is made

● To learn about the Burns Stanza

● To become familiar with new Scots words

Starter Activity:

Working with a partner, discuss what a haggis is. What is it made of? How is it made? Where does it come from? Write down a description that you could give to a tourist. Be prepared to share these descriptions with the class.

It became clear from this that students didn’t have a great awareness of what constituted a haggis to begin with. There were lots of answers skirting around the idea of sheep, but these were a bit wooly (forgive the pun). They had loads of vague knowledge about Burns Suppers and turnips, but nothing specific. Hence, the reading task that came next.

Reading Task:

Read the article explaining how a haggis is made.

Using highlighter pens, pick out key phrases.

You should look for:

● Descriptive phrases and adjectives

● Key verbs and actions

● Key nouns, facts and items

● Writing features such as simile, alliteration, etc.

During this phase of the lesson, it became clear that the language of the article was perfect for engaging the pupils, who had, in all honesty, not been hugely enthused by the idea of a lesson on Burns.

The writer uses fantastically gritty and descriptive language to help the reader visualize, smell and feel the preparation of the haggis: yanking veins from lungs; picking lumps of meaty gruel from her fingernails; the glorious stench of the sheep’s stomach. It’s wonderful, and made the whole class sit up and take notice, as they highlighted their favorite bits.

While Burns is often lauded for his use of wit and humor, I feel that in schools we often overlook the craft and technical expertise evident in his work. I used the first verse of the immortal “Address to a Haggis” to illustrate the tight rhythm and rhyme scheme which he popularized — what became known as the Burns Stanza, as closely associated with him as sonnets are with Shakespeare. This was a key piece of information and I did not move on from this until I felt confident that the whole class understood the format.

Note-taking Task:

The Burns Stanza:

● Six lines long

● Follows an A-A-A-B-A-B rhyme scheme

● Lines are always the same length: 8-8-8-4-8-4

For example:

Fair fa’ your honest, sonsie face, A 8

Great chieftain o the puddin’-race! A 8

Aboon them a’ ye tak your place, A 8

Painch, tripe, or thairm: B 4

Weel are ye worthy o’ a grace A 8

As lang’s my airm. B 4

Writing Task:

In pairs:

● Write instructions for preparing and cooking haggis, according to the New York Times article about the George Cockburn & Son butchery.

● This should be in the form of a Burns Stanza poem – follow the same rhyme scheme and length.

● You should write at least three stanzas, and make use of at least six Scots words – use the glossary and include ones of your own.

● You should include key words and phrases from the article and the glossary. Tick these off the list as you use them.

I was really pleased with the response and enthusiasm shown by pupils when writing their poems. They had clearly understood the method for making haggis from the article, which they referred to frequently, and they grappled with the rigidity of the Burns Stanza until they found themselves able to tweak phrasing and expression to fit the lines and create strong rhymes.

They used some of the traditional words from the Burns glossary, but many also included modern Scots that they knew and used themselves. The paired work allowed for plenty of discussion, meaning that the lessons incorporated the four key strands of English: reading, writing, talking and listening. All that remained was for me to help with rhyming ideas and check their understanding.

How did I know that they had learned what I wanted them to? They emailed me their poems, which were finished as homework. Take a look.

__________

Poem No. 1, written by Ava and Erin

I laid my hauns on the livers,Cut up into tiny slivers,Giving me horrible shivers,Rubbery veins,Lambs blood flowing like a river,And greetin weans.

The Butcher wis awfy swankie,Even though his hauns were manky,“Gies ma pudding! Here’s a hanky.”“Don’t git donsie.”“Aye, when am I ever cranky?”“Aye, you’re sonsie.”

What a treat, a glorious pud,This gorgeous sight uplifts my mood,Not to praise it would just be rude,It’s in my mouth,I am gawsie, its just too good!I’m really fouth.

Poem No. 2, written by Ella and Abigail

This feast is a ball made of meat,It’s a gawsie good thing to eat,And it’s anything but petite!Comes from a sheep,Please come dive into your great treatIn a fouth heap.

The wee classic Scottish puddin,Sheep’s insides need a good thumpin,With a churning and a thuddin,With much cantieWhen it comes hearts will be pumpin;Meal time, auntie!

Get a table with your neighbour,Tear right in, it’s full of flavour!Eat your dinner, quit your haver.Lies on a tray,Vegetarians will waiver -We won’t delay!

Poem No. 3, written by Orla and Lauren

Haggis is a great meaty meal,With a warm and rubbery feel,This puddin can be a great deal,And if you tryTo eat it all then you will reel,So go and buy!

Haggis is such a gawsie treat,When it’s made it has to be neat,The butcher is swanky, but sweet,When he makes it,The oven grows tae a great heat,Let’s hae a bit!

Poem No. 4, written by Olivia and Heather

Wee rubbery bits, lamb and lung.Want some haggis but need a bung,And ma da wouldny gee me some.Whit a scunner!But after he heard ma song sung.A got hunners!

Then a went doon tae the main-street.We’re gonna get a smashing treat.Doon at the butchers, we’ll all meet.Dug stole a bone -Ma nearly choked right in the street.Let’s just go home!

_________

Poetry Pairing | ‘Winter: A Dirge’

It’s Tasty and Political: Britain Presses U.S. on Haggis

A Night of Food and Song: Burns Supper

(Reuters) - Spreadbetting group CMC Markets Plc said net operating income for the second half of the year would be 'moderately' above the first half and 'significantly' ahead of the prior year, stemming from its increased focus on high-value clients.

CMC, which was hit by a sector-wide regulatory clampdown, said a rise in the proportion of high-value clients had led to improved revenue per client in the final quarter of the year.

Active client numbers at CMC -- founded by Chief Executive Peter Cruddas as a foreign exchange broker with a 10,000-pound investment in 1989 -- rose year-on-year in the final quarter.

CMC shares rose as much as 8.9 percent in early trading on the London Stock Exchange after at least one analyst nudged up 2018 forecasts following the trading update.

However, full-year client numbers were still behind last year, CMC said on Thursday.

The European Union's securities watchdog on Tuesday said it will ban 'binary' options sales to retail clients and restrict the sales of Contract for Differences (CFDs) to protect investors from significant losses, knocking down shares in Britain's spreadbetters.

(GRAPHIC - UK spreadbetters battle regulation: https://reut.rs/2J2izPW)

Binary options and CFDs are financial products that give an investor exposure to price movements in securities without actually owning the underlying asset such as a currency, commodity or stock.

Binary products generated 2.1 million pounds in revenue from the UK and Europe in the first half of 2018, CMC had said, adding that a drop in revenue from such products would be immaterial for the group.

However, an analyst at RBC Capital said the shift towards high-value clients should mean that CMC is well positioned for the upcoming ESMA measures that apply to retail clients. The brokerage has an "outperform" rating on the stock with a target price of 170 pence.

Analysts at Peel Hunt, who raised their 2018 forecasts by 10 percent, said CMC's latest statement emphasises the strength of its platform. They expect to see a re-rating in CMC shares as the current regulatory overhang dissipates.

(This version of the story corrects graphics link)

(Reporting by Noor Zainab Hussain and Rahul B in Bengaluru; Editing by Sunil Nair)

Buell Neidlinger, a masterly bassist who had a significant role in the establishment of free jazz, took part in the premieres of works by John Cage and Igor Stravinsky and had credits on numerous hit songs and soundtracks, died on March 16 at his home in Whidbey Island, Wash. He was 82.

His wife, Margaret Storer, said the cause was a heart attack.

Mr. Neidlinger’s virtuosity manifested itself early, first on the cello, which he played proficiently before his teens, and then on the upright bass. So did his ability to thrive in almost any musical idiom.

He attended Yale for one year, studying classical music and playing in a Dixieland group called Eli’s Chosen Six. Dropping out, he headed to New York, his hometown, to find work on the jazz scene.

“I was going to Yale with a bunch of people that were so much like the people who were running the McCarthy hearings,” he said in a 2003 interview with the website All About Jazz. “So I bailed out.”

In New York, he apprenticed with Walter Page, a former bassist for the Count Basie Orchestra and a onetime leader of the Oklahoma City Blue Devils. He also sometimes played with Billie Holiday on club dates in her final years.

In 1956, he joined Cecil Taylor, a young pianist and composer intent on disrupting the fixed linguistics of bebop and hard-bop; Mr. Taylor’s innovations in this period helped establish the avant-garde form known as free jazz. Mr. Neidlinger played with Mr. Taylor’s groups until 1961.

At 24, he also recorded an album with Mr. Taylor, the cheekily titled “New York City R&B.” His playing on the album is rangy but precise — effecting a loping swing on “O.P.,” his own composition, and a faster, more insistent style on Mr. Taylor’s “Cell Walk for Celeste,” reflecting the influence of big-band bassists.

The album was released under Mr. Neidlinger’s name on the Candid label, then reissued by Columbia, this time with Mr. Taylor credited as a co-leader. It would become a classic document of free jazz’s inchoate years.

But Mr. Neidlinger saw early on that a career in jazz could spell hardship. “Being out of town all the time and living in cheap hotels, starving to death,” he told All About Jazz. “And so I was determined to learn to do every style I could, and it’s put me in good stead.”

He complemented his jazz gigs with studio work in the early 1960s, recording on a number of pop singles, including Tony Bennett’s “I Left My Heart in San Francisco.”

But after being caught with heroin in his possession, Mr. Neidlinger lost his cabaret card — the New York City-issued license required of musicians playing in nightclubs — and moved to Providence, R.I. He kicked his drug habit while immersing himself again in classical music.

Later he became a member of the Houston Symphony and received a series of performance grants. He played on the debuts of new works by Cage, Stravinsky and other prominent composers and eventually landed a spot in the prestigious Boston Symphony Orchestra.

In 1971, he moved to California, lured by the thriving studio work there. He was hired by the California Institute of the Arts and became the principal bassist for the Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra. He spent almost 30 years as the principal bassist in the Warner Bros. Studio Orchestra, and recorded with pop stars like Barbra Streisand, Dolly Parton and the Eagles.

As with so many virtuoso musicians a level below stardom, much of his work was unattributed. Mr. Neidlinger liked to tell the story about the night when he was awakened after midnight by an assistant to Ms. Streisand. He went to the studio, he said, and helped her finish writing the song “Evergreen,” which became the theme song of her 1976 movie “A Star Is Born” and a hit as a commercial release.

“She never gave me any publishing on it,” he said, referring to a credit that would allow him to collect royalties. “If she had, I’d be living in Monaco or something.”

But to some degree Mr. Neidlinger took business into his own hands; in 1979 he started a small record label, K2B2, with the saxophonist Marty Krystall. In 1980 the label released “Ready for the 90’s” as Krystall Klear and the Buells, Mr. Neidlinger’s first album as a leader since “New York City R&B.”

Around this time Mr. Neidlinger began his relationship with Ms. Storer, also a professional bassist. His previous three marriages had ended in divorce. She survives him, along with two children from the previous marriages: a daughter, Miranda Neidlinger; and a son, Mike.

Buell Neidlinger was born in New York City on March 2, 1936, and grew up there and in Westport, Conn. His name combined those of his parents: the former Jane Buell and Roger Neidlinger, who ran a business leasing cargo spaces on ships.

After a career of more than 40 years, Mr. Neidlinger moved to Whidbey Island in 1997, where he played in a string quartet every week with Ms. Storer and continued to release albums on K2B2. His latest album, “The Happenings: Music of Herbie Nichols,” featuring Mr. Krystall and the guitarist Howard Alden, came out last year.

The Philadelphia Orchestra, which has been trying to ride a wave of recent musical success after facing the rough seas of bankruptcy earlier this decade, announced Monday evening that it had chosen a new leader: Matías Tarnopolsky, the executive and artistic director of Cal Performances, the performing arts organization at the University of California, Berkeley.

He will succeed Allison Vulgamore, who stepped down as the orchestra’s president and chief executive officer at the end of December after eight momentous years that saw the orchestra tap Yannick Nézet-Séguin as its music director, go in and out of bankruptcy protection and endure a brief strike that canceled its opening night concert in 2016.

Mr. Tarnopolsky, 48, rethought the mission of Cal Performances, working to strengthen its ties with both the campus and the Bay Area community. He has deep experience molding the artistic profiles of orchestras, having previously served as the vice president of artistic planning for the New York Philharmonic and the senior director of artistic planning for the Chicago Symphony Orchestra. But in Philadelphia he will also be responsible for the orchestra’s financial fortunes, after a tumultuous decade that saw the storied ensemble become the most prominent American orchestra to seek bankruptcy protection.

“It’s an organization of great resilience, and I think it’s got a foundation for an even more remarkable future,” Mr. Tarnopolsky said in a telephone interview, explaining that he hoped to build on the strong relationship that Mr. Nézet-Séguin had formed with the musicians and audiences.

The orchestra has enjoyed great musical success under Mr. Nézet-Séguin: David Allen wrote in The New York Times in 2015 that “it might be that no American orchestra sounds more alive.” Mr. Nézet-Séguin, who will become music director of the Metropolitan Opera next season, has extended his contract in Philadelphia through the 2025-26 season, ensuring musical continuity.

But the orchestra continues to face fiscal challenges, as the brief 2016 strike showed: musicians, whose pay was cut by 14 percent in 2011, held out for raises that management said it could ill afford. (They settled on a three-year deal with modest raises.)

Mr. Tarnopolsky, who was born in Argentina and raised in London, will begin as president and chief executive officer of the orchestra in August, and his initial contract is for a five-year term. His selection was first reported Monday morning by the website Slipped Disc. The orchestra’s chairman, Richard B. Worley, praised his “track record of cultivating artistic relationships, new audiences, and communities” in a statement.

SPECIAL SECTION: WEALTH

An article about crafting legal documents to minimize friction between the individuals inheriting an estate misspells the given name of the chief wealth advisory officer at Ballentine Partners. It is Coventry Edwards-Pitt, not Covington.

OPINION

An opinion essay last week about college students facing hunger during academic breaks misstated the year in which Harvard first opened its dining halls during spring break. It was 2015, not 2014.

•

A news analysis last week about populists’ admiration of Vladimir Putin misidentified a political office once held by Silvio Berlusconi. He was the prime minister of Italy, not its president.

ARTS & LEISURE

An article last Sunday about “Prurience,” at the Guggenheim Museum, misidentified the designer of the Wright restaurant at the museum. The restaurant was designed by Andre Kikoski — not by Frank Lloyd Wright, who designed the museum.

•

An article on Feb. 25 about three young people to watch in theater this spring misstated the name of a character played by Andrew Burnap in “The Inheritance.” He is Toby Darling, not Harry Darling.

BOOK REVIEW

A biographical note on March 11 with a graphic review about “The Real Life of Sebastian Knight,” by Vladimir Nabokov, misstated part of the title of a book by the reviewer, Liana Finck. It is “A Bintel Brief,” not “Binto.”

•

A review on March 11 about “Behemoth,” by Joshua B. Freeman, misspelled the given name of the wealthy Boston merchant for whom Lowell, Mass., was named. He was Francis Cabot Lowell, not Frances.

•

A review last Sunday about “The Which Way Tree,” by Elizabeth Crook, misstated the number of novels the author has written.“The Which Way Tree” is her fifth, not her first.

MAGAZINE

An article on March 4 about color forecasting described incorrectly the ownership of Pantone. Pantone is a subsidiary of X-Rite, Inc.; it is not a privately owned company.

•

An article on March 11 about Jason Isbell misstated a lyric from his song with the 400 Unit “If We Were Vampires.” The line is “If we were vampires and death was a joke,” not "If we were vampires and life was a joke.”

•

An article on March 18 about recovery literature incorrectly states that D.T. Max attributed an anonymous testimonial to David Foster Wallace. Though other writers have made this attribution, Max has not.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

(Reuters) - Lowe's Cos Inc on Monday said its chief executive officer is retiring, the latest executive departure as the home improvement chain tries to move out of the shadow of larger rival Home Depot Inc that has outperformed it for years.

Shares of Lowe's rose as much as 7.8 percent to $90.33  after Robert Niblock said he would step down once a successor was found.

The No. 2 U.S. home improvement store has struggled to control margin pressures and its same-store sales growth has trailed Home Depot's for many years, weighed down by a focus on do-it-yourself customers compared to Home Depot's core customer base of professional contractors who bill more.

Lowe's underperformance has also attracted shareholder activism.

Hedge fund D.E. Shaw Group secured two independent board seats after taking a nearly $1 billion stake and agitating for change. D.E. Shaw, best known as a quantitative hedge fund, started carving out an activist practice last year.

D.E. Shaw portfolio manager Quentin Koffey said in a statement that Niblock leaves the company in "excellent condition" to execute on value creation opportunities.

In the past year, Lowe's stock gained 1.7 percent, in contrast to Home Depot's near 17 percent rise.

Telsey Advisory Group analyst Joseph Feldman said, "a transition will be well received by investors, given their pent-up frustration with the company, and could be the first step toward improved operational execution."

Niblock's departure follows the retirements of Chief Financial Officer Robert Hull and Chief Operating Officer Rick Damron over the past year.

Lowe's said its board has formed a six-person committee to find a successor, led by D.E. Shaw-backed director David Batchelder.

"After a 25-year career at Lowe's ... I am confident that it is the right time to transition the company to its next generation of leadership," Niblock, who is also the chairman and president of the board, said in a statement.

Since Niblock took the top job at Lowe's in January 2005, the company's sales have risen 88 percent to $68.62 billion, while the stock has gained more than threefold.

Lowe's shares closed 6.6 percent higher at $89.30.

(Reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal in Bengaluru; additional reporting by Liana B. Baker; editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty and David Gregorio)

MELBOURNE —  Haas celebrated the U.S.-owned Formula One team's best qualifying performance on Saturday and batted off suggestions that their car was a 'replica' of last year's race-winning Ferrari.

Danish driver Kevin Magnussen will start Sunday's race at Albert Park in fifth place with French team mate Romain Grosjean lining up in sixth after Red Bull's Daniel Ricciardo took a three place drop.

It was only the second time the Ferrari-powered team, who made their F1 debut in 2016, had both drivers qualifying in the top 10.

The team's previous best grid placing was eighth for Grosjean and 10th for Mexican Esteban Gutierrez in Japan in 2016.

Haas's pace caught the attention of rivals in testing, with some tipping them to be the potential surprise of the season, but there have also been comments about the team's close technical ties to Ferrari.

"They have obviously a Ferrari replica of last year and Ferrari were winning here (in 2017)," McLaren's double world champion Fernando Alonso had said on Friday after the first practice sessions.

"Haas appears to be very fast and maybe is right behind the top three teams and it will be hard to beat, especially in the first race and the first part of the season," added the Spaniard, a former Ferrari driver.

Grosjean, who has long aspired to be a Ferrari driver, said disparaging comments about the Ferrari ties were unfair even if Haas used the same engine, gearbox and suspension as the Italians.

"It’s the same thing every time we’re fast," said the Frenchman. "It was the same thing last year, we were ‘Ferrari B'," he added. "It’s not true and it’s not nice for the people that work at Haas."

Magnussen, a former McLaren driver, said Alonso -- who qualified 11th but starts 10th -- was just annoyed that Haas were ahead.

"I'm really proud of the team, and impressed. We've got a car that's competitive here, it's the fourth best car on the grid this weekend," he told reporters.

"This team is the smallest on the grid, and if not the lowest then one of the lowest budgets and the least amount of people and resources. And yet we've got the fourth best car on this track in qualifying."

Ferrari had Kimi Raikkonen and Sebastian Vettel qualifying second and third with Red Bull's Max Verstappen fourth. Mercedes' four times world champion Lewis Hamilton starts on pole position.

(Reporting by Alan Baldwin in London, editing by Toby Davis)

MADRID —  Spain sent out a warning to their World Cup rivals as Isco grabbed a hat-trick in a 6-1 thrashing of Argentina, who were missing the injured Lionel Messi, in a friendly on Tuesday.

On what was supposed to be a historic night for Argentina captain Javier Mascherano, who joined Javier Zanetti on 142 caps as his country’s record appearance holder, things quickly turned sour as Diego Costa, Thiago and Iago Aspas also found the net.

It will have made uneasy viewing for coach Jorge Sampaoli and emphasised more than ever how reliant his side are on their talisman Messi, who has been struggling with a muscle problem.

Should the Barcelona forward be missing at any point during this year's finals in Russia, Argentina are likely to struggle judging by their meek surrender in the Spanish capital.

Without Messi on the pitch there was room for someone to take the game by the scruff of the neck and Real Madrid's outstanding Isco filled the void.

The diminutive midfielder dictated play from the centre of the pitch throughout as Spain ruthlessly and consistently exploited the high Argentine defensive line.

“I’m not going to discover anything else about how much I like Isco and having him here with us,” Spain coach Julen Lopetegui said.

“We’ve beaten a team with a strong history who got to the final of the last World Cup. Obviously, once we’re there you start from scratch and they had a couple of important absentees but we’re happy – it’s a real match and a deserved win.”

Argentina might have taken the lead in the opening five minutes, but striker Gonzalo Higuain volleyed wide from close range which was an omen of things to come.

Costa then bravely prodded in from close range after 12 minutes, despite being clattered by goalkeeper Sergio Romero. Both players required lengthy treatment and eventually left the pitch at different stages.

Romero’s replacement, Chelsea back-up Willy Caballero, who starred in Friday’s 2-0 win over Italy, suffered a nightmare. A wayward pass with his first touch saw Isco gleefully sweep home Spain’s second in the 27th as they threatened to run riot.

Defender Nicolas Otamendi briefly offered the visitors hope as he towered above the defence to nod in before the break.

But after the restart it was again all Spain with haphazard goalkeeping and defending all contributing to a procession for the former world champions, who condemned Argentina to their heaviest defeat since a 2009 loss by the same score to Bolivia.

Spain face European champions and Iberian rivals Portugal as well as Iran and Morocco in Group B at the World Cup, while Argentina will play Iceland, Croatia and Nigeria in Group D.

(Editing by Ken Ferris)

GENEVA —  There is no sign that the United States is distancing itself from the World Trade Organization, and negotiations are underway to avert a global trade war, WTO Director-General Roberto Azevedo said in a BBC interview broadcast on Wednesday.

U.S. President Donald Trump has launched a series of tariff-raising moves, upsetting allies and rivals alike.

Trump is also vetoing the appointment of WTO judges, causing a backlog in disputes and threatening to paralyse what is effectively the supreme court of trade. Some trade experts have begun asking if Trump wants to kill the WTO, whose 164 members force each other to play by the rules.

"I have absolutely no indication that the United Sates is walking away from the WTO. Zero indication," Azevedo said in an interview on the BBC Hardtalk programme, according to excerpts released early by the BBC.

Last month Trump called the WTO a "catastrophe", and complained the United States had only a minority of its judges. The next day Azevedo gently set him straight, noting that the United States had an unusually good deal, since it had always had one of the seven judges.

Asked if the WTO should be thinking about a Plan B without the United States, Azevedo told the BBC that he had not heard anything to suggest that such a situation was on the cards.

"Every contact that I have in the U.S. administration assures me that they are engaging," he said.

The question of whether U.S. tariffs were legal could only be settled by a WTO dispute panel but the damage from such unilateral actions would be felt much more quickly as other countries retaliated, leading to a global trade war, he said.

"I don't think we are there yet but we are seeing the first movements towards it, yes."

Nobody believed it was a minor problem, including those in the U.S. administration, and people were beginning to understand how serious the situation was and what impact it could have on the global economy, Azevedo said.

"There are still negotiations ongoing," he said. "Now that doesn't mean that we should downplay that – you don't want to be in the war. We want to avoid the war so everything that we can do to avoid being in that situation we must be doing at this point."

(Reporting by Tom Miles)

Morgan Freeman once again lends gravitas to a penguin documentary. And Neil Young turns to acting in a new movie by Daryl Hannah. 

MARCH OF THE PENGUINS 2: THE NEXT STEP on Hulu. Moviegoers flocked to theaters in 2005 to see penguins flock across the tundra; the $8 million documentary made $127 million worldwide. There’s no big-screen release for this sequel, but audiences can still watch these lovable flippered birds trek across “unforgiving yet mesmerizing landscapes,” as Morgan Freeman intones. Once again, the focus is on the relationship between penguin fathers and their young — dads must cradle the eggs, watch the babies while the moms are out gathering food, and protect them from carrion birds and bitter storms.

PARADOX on Netflix. Neil Young is an Oscar nominee, but not for his work on camera — his song in Jonathan Demme’s “Philadelphia” was recognized in 1994. He has acted sparingly over the years, though, and returns to the trade in this new film written and directed by Daryl Hannah. The film follows a band of outlaws hiding in the mountains, with Mr. Young playing the man in the black hat. He also provides original music along with the band Promise of the Real, which includes Willie Nelson’s sons.

ROXANNE ROXANNE on Netflix. Before Cardi B, before Missy Elliott, before Queen Latifah, there was Roxanne Shante. In 1984, the M.C. recorded “Roxanne’s Revenge” when she was 14 and living in Queens. But while the song took off like a rocket on boomboxes across the country, her career did not. This biopic traces her rise and stagnation, as she was taken advantage of by managers and other men in the music industry. “I was actually able to sit back and say, ‘Wow, something good came out of all of this,’” Ms. Shante said in a Times interview about the film, which stars Chanté Adams and also includes performances by Mahershala Ali and Nia Long.

GAME OVER, MAN! on Netflix. A couple of years ago Jordan Peele and Keegan-Michael Key made the leap from a Comedy Central half-hour to a full-length action movie, with “Keanu.” Blake Anderson, Adam DeVine and Anders Holm, from “Workaholics,” make the same jump here, swapping drab office attire for bloody tuxedos. Playing the help at a hotel, they spring into action when terrorists storm the building and take hostages.

N.C.A.A. MEN’S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT Eight teams face-off tonight. In the most intriguing matchup, Duke, led by  Grayson Allen, will meet the resilient and defensively stingy Syracuse, an 11-seed. They tip off at 9:37 p.m. on CBS.

WASHINGTON — President Trump announced on Thursday the swift substitution of his national security adviser: Lt. Gen. H. R. McMaster, the battle-tested, three-star Army general, is resigning and will be replaced by John R. Bolton, the former American ambassador to the United Nations.

Mr. Bolton, who was considered a hawk among hawks in President George W. Bush’s administration, had a history of incendiary comments that primed him to be a commentator on Fox News. There, he impressed Mr. Trump with his muscular version of American power.

News that Mr. Bolton would become Mr. Trump’s third national security adviser — after General McMaster and Michael T. Flynn — was met with immediate acclaim and criticism.

Here’s a look at how political figures and lawmakers on the right and the left reacted.

Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina

Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah

Senator Marco Rubio of Florida

Representative Lee Zeldin of New York

Senator Tom Cotton of Arkansas

Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader

Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the ranking member on House Intelligence Committee 

Representative Tulsi Gabbard of Hawaii

Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts 

Senator Christopher S. Murphy of Connecticut

DUBLIN — The Irish are renowned for their way with words. But the nation of bardic poetry, James Joyce and W. B. Yeats has proved a latecomer to the wordiest of music genres, hip-hop.

“It’s always been corny to rap and be from Dublin,” Rejjie Snow said in an interview in his dressing-room in the Olympia Theater, a plush 19th-century concert hall in the Irish capital. “I don’t know why. Maybe it’s the accent, maybe it’s the lifestyle. When I told people I wanted to rap as a kid, they were like, ‘Oh you want to rap?’”

But Rejjie Snow’s eccentric choice of career has been vindicated. A few hours later, one of the rising stars of Irish hip-hop, 24, stood in the spotlight on the Olympia’s stage, microphone in hand, faced by a young, excited crowd chanting “Rejjie, Rejjie” and rapping verses from his newly released debut album, “Dear Annie,” back at him. At one point, a teenager at the front hauled herself onto the barrier separating audience from stage to shout, “Rejjie, I love you!”

The first rap acts in Ireland emerged in the early 1990s. But it has taken until now for hip-hop culture to start flourishing, with rappers and groups proliferating across the country. The situation resembles Irish rock in the 1970s, when bands sprung up in a grass-roots modernization of Irish music.

Two forces lie behind Irish rap’s rise. One is a new generation of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean, attracted to Ireland during its “Celtic Tiger” boom years in the 1990s and 2000s. Their numbers are tiny by the standards of other European countries — in the 2016 census, just under 65,000 people identified as black in a nation of almost 4.7 million — but talent in the emerging music scene is disproportionately drawn from among them. Rejjie Snow, whose given name is Alexander Anyaegbunam, has a Nigerian father and an Irish-Jamaican mother.

The other factor is the growth in popularity of hip-hop itself. Since 2010, it has eclipsed other genres to become the global lingua franca of youth culture. In 2016, Drake was the most streamed act in the world on Spotify. He was also the most streamed in Ireland, which has the youngest population in the European Union. This year’s lineup for one of the country’s main music events, the Longitude Festival, has risked rock fans’ ire by turning to hip-hop artists.

Casey Walsh, 20, and his childhood friend Alex Sheehan, 21, make up the duo Versatile, a north Dublin take on the strain of delinquent rap acts running back from Eminem to the Beastie Boys. They made a surprise appearance at Rejjie Snow’s Olympia Theatre gig, to a fervid response from the audience.

“Ireland never really took to the hip-hop music, it was just a select few,” Mr. Walsh said in a Skype interview. “But now, festival lineups are just hip-hop acts. It’s crazy.”

“I used to cringe when I heard Irish rap,” he added. “Stuff about how the government’s robbing us and our lives are so bad.”

“It’s kind of repetitive,” Mr. Sheehan added.

“And no one wants to hear it,” Mr. Walsh said.

A do-it-yourself ethos predominates among Irish hip-hop acts. Audiences are built using social media and YouTube videos: Versatile get as many as a million views for theirs. But like the Irish rock bands in the 1970s, rappers in search of a record deal are forced to look to Britain or the United States. Rejjie Snow, who lives in Brooklyn, is signed to the influential New York label 300 Entertainment. His latest album was mainly recorded in London and Paris.

“Compared to two years ago it’s so much better,” Celaviedmai, a 25-year-old rapper from Galway whose given name is Maimouna Salif, said in a telephone interview. “It’s seen as a real career, it’s not seen as a hobby or a pastime.”

Celaviedmai is one of a handful of female rappers in Ireland, in what is still a male-dominated scene. “Ireland is so small that it’s so difficult to do things on your own,” she said. “There aren’t enough resources, or they’re too expensive.”

The positive side-effect of limited resources is artistic ingenuity. Irish rap abounds in different styles. Rejjie Snow’s songs are dreamy and off-center. Socially conscious rap is common; its criminal-minded flip side, street rap, does exist, but to a lesser degree. Grime, a vibrant Britain-based offshoot of rap, is beginning to make its presence felt. Other acts fuse hip-hop with Afrobeats, R&B and dance music.

The free-for-all mirrors wider rap trends. The last decade has seen a breakdown of the importance of region to hip-hop, its reliance on place as a marker of a particular sound. The internet has collapsed distances between scenes. But Irish rap’s lack of definition also points to a fluidity within Irish identity.

“Thought I had to be American, thought I had to be English, everything else but Irish,” the Rusangano Family, a trio from Limerick, rap on one of their tracks. In an interview, Godknows Jonas, 27, a member of the group, said, “That’s a very personal line, because identity is something that has always been a confusing one as someone who got here from Zimbabwe.”

“When I was younger, I’d feel like I didn’t fit in with my friends, and then I’d go home and feel I didn’t fit in with my parents: They were still holding onto the culture from back home,” he added. “For me, writing those lines was like me staking a claim of who I am. I’m proud to be Irish, I’m proud to be African, I’m proud to be who I am.”

What it means to be Irish in 2018 is up for grabs. “Our identity as Irish people is socially and culturally evolving,” said Mango, whose given name is Karl Mangan, a 27-year-old rapper who makes grime music with the producer Adam Fogarty, 35, who is known as Mathman.

The process is not without tensions. In rap, they center on the question of accent. American or mid-Atlantic accents are not uncommon among Irish rappers. Rejjie Snow, who left Dublin at 17 to live in Florida, is an example, though he described his own rapping voice as “neutral.”

Mr. Fogarty has his own views about how an Irish M.C. should sound. He said there was “a quite significant part of our hip-hop history where artists were using fake accents. Slowly but surely, there has been a shift away from that.”

Lilo Blues, 21, a member of the Dublin rap trio the Hare Squead, groaned when the issue was raised. He grew up in southern Dublin listening to American hip-hop and R&B. “I didn’t have anything in Ireland to grasp onto in terms of urban culture or sound,” he said. “It’s not even conscious. It’s not like, ‘I’ll put this phrase in so they can tell I’m from Ireland.’ No, it’s natural.”

At Rejjie Snow’s gig at the Olympia, issues of accent and music industry infrastructure faded into the background. Here was Irish rap’s acceleration in its distilled form, a propulsive release of energy. Thinking about the destination could wait for another day. “Yo Dublin, are you ready for Rejjie Snow?” the D.J. shouted. The answering roar drowned out the beats.

DUBLIN — The Irish are renowned for their way with words. But the nation of bardic poetry, James Joyce and W. B. Yeats has proved a latecomer to the wordiest of music genres, hip-hop.

“It’s always been corny to rap and be from Dublin,” Rejjie Snow said in an interview in his dressing-room in the Olympia Theater, a plush 19th-century concert hall in the Irish capital. “I don’t know why. Maybe it’s the accent, maybe it’s the lifestyle. When I told people I wanted to rap as a kid, they were like, ‘Oh you want to rap?’”

But Rejjie Snow’s eccentric choice of career has been vindicated. A few hours later, one of the rising stars of Irish hip-hop, 24, stood in the spotlight on the Olympia’s stage, microphone in hand, faced by a young, excited crowd chanting “Rejjie, Rejjie” and rapping verses from his newly released debut album, “Dear Annie,” back at him. At one point, a teenager at the front hauled herself onto the barrier separating audience from stage to shout, “Rejjie, I love you!”

The first rap acts in Ireland emerged in the early 1990s. But it has taken until now for hip-hop culture to start flourishing, with rappers and groups proliferating across the country. The situation resembles Irish rock in the 1970s, when bands sprung up in a grass-roots modernization of Irish music.

Two forces lie behind Irish rap’s rise. One is a new generation of immigrants from Africa and the Caribbean, attracted to Ireland during its “Celtic Tiger” boom years in the 1990s and 2000s. Their numbers are tiny by the standards of other European countries — in the 2016 census, just under 65,000 people identified as black in a nation of almost 4.7 million — but talent in the emerging music scene is disproportionately drawn from among them. Rejjie Snow, whose given name is Alexander Anyaegbunam, has a Nigerian father and an Irish-Jamaican mother.

The other factor is the growth in popularity of hip-hop itself. Since 2010, it has eclipsed other genres to become the global lingua franca of youth culture. In 2016, Drake was the most streamed act in the world on Spotify. He was also the most streamed in Ireland, which has the youngest population in the European Union. This year’s lineup for one of the country’s main music events, the Longitude Festival, has risked rock fans’ ire by turning to hip-hop artists.

Casey Walsh, 20, and his childhood friend Alex Sheehan, 21, make up the duo Versatile, a north Dublin take on the strain of delinquent rap acts running back from Eminem to the Beastie Boys. They made a surprise appearance at Rejjie Snow’s Olympia Theatre gig, to a fervid response from the audience.

“Ireland never really took to the hip-hop music, it was just a select few,” Mr. Walsh said in a Skype interview. “But now, festival lineups are just hip-hop acts. It’s crazy.”

“I used to cringe when I heard Irish rap,” he added. “Stuff about how the government’s robbing us and our lives are so bad.”

“It’s kind of repetitive,” Mr. Sheehan added.

“And no one wants to hear it,” Mr. Walsh said.

A do-it-yourself ethos predominates among Irish hip-hop acts. Audiences are built using social media and YouTube videos: Versatile get as many as a million views for theirs. But like the Irish rock bands in the 1970s, rappers in search of a record deal are forced to look to Britain or the United States. Rejjie Snow, who lives in Brooklyn, is signed to the influential New York label 300 Entertainment. His latest album was mainly recorded in London and Paris.

“Compared to two years ago it’s so much better,” Celaviedmai, a 25-year-old rapper from Galway whose given name is Maimouna Salif, said in a telephone interview. “It’s seen as a real career, it’s not seen as a hobby or a pastime.”

Celaviedmai is one of a handful of female rappers in Ireland, in what is still a male-dominated scene. “Ireland is so small that it’s so difficult to do things on your own,” she said. “There aren’t enough resources, or they’re too expensive.”

The positive side-effect of limited resources is artistic ingenuity. Irish rap abounds in different styles. Rejjie Snow’s songs are dreamy and off-center. Socially conscious rap is common; its criminal-minded flip side, street rap, does exist, but to a lesser degree. Grime, a vibrant Britain-based offshoot of rap, is beginning to make its presence felt. Other acts fuse hip-hop with Afrobeats, R&B and dance music.

The free-for-all mirrors wider rap trends. The last decade has seen a breakdown of the importance of region to hip-hop, its reliance on place as a marker of a particular sound. The internet has collapsed distances between scenes. But Irish rap’s lack of definition also points to a fluidity within Irish identity.

“Thought I had to be American, thought I had to be English, everything else but Irish,” the Rusangano Family, a trio from Limerick, rap on one of their tracks. In an interview, Godknows Jonas, 27, a member of the group, said, “That’s a very personal line, because identity is something that has always been a confusing one as someone who got here from Zimbabwe.”

“When I was younger, I’d feel like I didn’t fit in with my friends, and then I’d go home and feel I didn’t fit in with my parents: They were still holding onto the culture from back home,” he added. “For me, writing those lines was like me staking a claim of who I am. I’m proud to be Irish, I’m proud to be African, I’m proud to be who I am.”

What it means to be Irish in 2018 is up for grabs. “Our identity as Irish people is socially and culturally evolving,” said Mango, whose given name is Karl Mangan, a 27-year-old rapper who makes grime music with the producer Adam Fogarty, 35, who is known as Mathman.

The process is not without tensions. In rap, they center on the question of accent. American or mid-Atlantic accents are not uncommon among Irish rappers. Rejjie Snow, who left Dublin at 17 to live in Florida, is an example, though he described his own rapping voice as “neutral.”

Mr. Fogarty has his own views about how an Irish M.C. should sound. He said there was “a quite significant part of our hip-hop history where artists were using fake accents. Slowly but surely, there has been a shift away from that.”

Lilo Blues, 21, a member of the Dublin rap trio the Hare Squead, groaned when the issue was raised. He grew up in southern Dublin listening to American hip-hop and R&B. “I didn’t have anything in Ireland to grasp onto in terms of urban culture or sound,” he said. “It’s not even conscious. It’s not like, ‘I’ll put this phrase in so they can tell I’m from Ireland.’ No, it’s natural.”

At Rejjie Snow’s gig at the Olympia, issues of accent and music industry infrastructure faded into the background. Here was Irish rap’s acceleration in its distilled form, a propulsive release of energy. Thinking about the destination could wait for another day. “Yo Dublin, are you ready for Rejjie Snow?” the D.J. shouted. The answering roar drowned out the beats.

Welcome back, Fantastic Four! A video on Thursday about some of Marvel Entertainment’s upcoming comics included a silhouetted image of the Fantastic Four, signaling their return to a monthly series beginning in August. The series will be written by Dan Slott and drawn by Sara Pichelli.

For those not steeped in comic book lore, the team features Mister Fantastic and Invisible Woman, who are married; the Human Torch, who is her brother; and The Thing, a family friend. The previous Fantastic Four series ended in April 2015 and in a story published in January 2016, the married couple set off to explore the cosmos with their children, while the other half of the team remained on Earth. “We always knew the Fantastic Four would come back,” C. B. Cebulski, the editor in chief of Marvel, said in an interview. “We were waiting for the right time and the right creative team to bring them back.”

Mr. Slott said the Fantastic Four were in the first comics he ever read back when Stan Lee and Jack Kirby had the team meet the cosmic entity Galactus in 1965. “I started my adventures in the Marvel Universe with a freaked-out Reed Richards, the Watcher and the Silver Surfer,” Mr. Slott recalled. “I’ve wanted this for so long.”

Ms. Pichelli was excited about working on the series, but coy. “I can’t wait to draw a lot of the characters, but there’s one in particular I can’t reveal yet,” she said in an email interview. “You will know why they’re my favorite when you read the book!”

Mr. Slott will complete a 10-year-run writing Spider-Man this summer. He is envisioning writing at least 55 issues for the Fantastic Four, which would get the heroes to issue No. 700 (using comic book math, which stitches together three previous series). Fans should be used to these types of shenanigans. Captain America, for example, will reach issue 700 in April, only to be followed up by a new No. 1 in July written by Ta-Nehisi Coates.

Though there was an in-story reason the Fantastic Four were no longer together, there was a lot of speculation as to real-world reasons for the series’ end. The comics news and rumor site Bleeding Cool endlessly chronicled the belief that it was canceled over film rights. The question: Why would Marvel support and promote characters in its comics that would only benefit another film studio? (The rights to the Fantastic Four in film belong to Fox Studios.)

“I think it’s pretty common knowledge at this point that Marvel isn’t publishing Fantastic Four because of their disagreement with Fox,” Jonathan Hickman, who wrote the “Secret Wars” story that temporarily broke up the team, said in an interview last August on the comics news site Newsarama. In the same interview, Mr. Hickman said that to bring back the Fantastic Four, “Disney probably needs to buy Fox.” That possibility is now in the works.

TORONTO —  Canadian department store operator Hudson's Bay Co on Wednesday posted its first profit in eight quarters, but missed expectations as a tough retail environment ate into comparable sales and margins.

The owner of the Saks Fifth Avenue luxury retailer said it had net income of C$84 million (46.11 million pounds), or 39 Canadian cents per share, in the fourth quarter, which ended Feb. 3, compared with a net loss of C$152 million, or 83 cents, a year earlier. The increase was primarily due to a tax benefit on recent U.S. tax reforms, the company said in a statement.

Adjusted net income excluding one-time items was C$20 million, missing analyst expectations of C$120.18 million, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.

The company, which also operates Lord & Taylor in the United States and GALERIA Kaufhof in Europe, has been trying to extract value from its substantial real estate holdings as it wrestles with a shift in consumer preferences away from department stores to e-commerce and off-price offerings.

"While we are not pleased with our recent performance, we continue to capitalise on the value of our real estate portfolio and are taking action to improve our operating results," Executive Chairman Richard Baker said in a statement.

Moody's Investors Service in January downgraded Hudson's Bay's ratings, saying the changing consumer behaviour is increasing the need for department store operators to improve their technological capabilities and operational execution.

Comparable sales in Hudson's Bay's digital division, including its Gilt online store, rose 2.8 percent in the three months. Comparable sales in its European division, which includes Kaufhof, Germany's largest retail chain, and new stores in the Netherlands, fell 3.4 percent. They also fell across all other divisions except Saks Fifth Avenue, where they rose 2.1 percent.

The company reported a loss of C$581 million, or C$3.04 per share, for the full year, compared with C$516 million, or C$2.83, in the prior period.

Canada's oldest company said last month it had rejected Austrian property and retail group Signa Holding GmbH's 3 billion euro bid for the Kaufhof unit, and that Signa had withdrawn its offer, a day after Hudson's Bay named CVS Health veteran Helena Foulkes chief executive officer.

German magazine Manager Magazin last week reported that Kaufhof was set to post a loss of more than 100 million euros for the fiscal year that ended Jan. 31, due to rental increases of 50 million euros annually imposed by Hudson's Bay, which is also Kaufhof's main landlord.

Hudson's Bay does not provide a breakdown of the earnings of individual divisions.

Gross margin across the company fell 50 basis points to 39.7 percent from a year earlier, largely due to declines in HBC Europe and HBC Off Price, it said.

As part of its effort to monetize its well-located real estate assets, the company has put its downtown Vancouver store, which it owns in a joint venture with Canadian retail property trust RioCan, up for sale. That follows the sale of its flagship Lord & Taylor building on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue to Softbank-backed WeWork Companies Inc for $850 million.

(Reporting By Nichola Saminather; Editing by Chizu Nomiyama)

NEW YORK —  Brookfield Property Partners LP's latest bid to acquire the two-thirds of mall owner GGP Inc it does not already own low-balls the price of prime retail assets whose value has been obscured by e-commerce, analysts said on Tuesday.

Brookfield's cash and stock offer for GGP values the company, one of the largest owners and operators of U.S. shopping centres, at about $15.3 billion, or $500 million (£353.1 million) more than a similar bid it made four months ago that GGP rejected.

As of last week, GGP's shares were trading more than a quarter below the company's relative value, which measures an asset against similar ones, Thomson Reuters data shows.

Brookfield's existing 34 percent stake in GGP, a real estate investment trust, puts it in the driver's seat because it only has to pay 65 cents on the dollar to match other offers, said Alex Goldfarb, a managing director at Sandler O'Neill + Partners LP.

Another offer would have to replace the board and management, which Brookfield does not need to do, he said.

"There was no way they were going to bid against themselves," Goldfarb said of Brookfield. "They used that to their advantage.

"I understand the market frustration because it's completely a low-ball bid, but at the same time the alternative is less appealing," Goldfarb said.

The offer is a smart move on Brookfield's part because the majority of GGP's portfolio is urban, making Brookfield well positioned to redevelop the assets as offices, apartments or hotels, said Garrick Brown, a retail analyst at Cushman & Wakefield.

GGP cut most its weaker properties from 2010 to 2015, but the REIT was not immune to the impact of e-commerce, he said.

When department store operator Macy's announced plans to shutter 100 stores last year, not a single closure was in a GGP property, yet GGP's stock took a hit as all mall REITs did that day, Brown said.

The S&P 500 real estate sector rose 0.15 percent on Tuesday but mall operators were down. Simon Property Group fell 1.9 percent, Macerich Co. slid 4.0 percent, Kimco Realty slipped 0.42 percent and GGP tumbled 5.3 percent.

The best malls, called Class A by real estate brokers, have easily filled the vacancies left by the wave of bankruptcies in the retail industry and most have waiting lists for potential tenants, Brown said.

That is not the case for Class B and C properties, whose vacancies mar the outlook for better properties.

"This is only likely to worsen as we begin to see more bankruptcies this year, and I believe the trend will peak late 2018 or early 2019," he said.

GGP's stock fell because the offer is not a great price, said Scott Crowe, chief investment strategist at CenterSquare Investment Management in Philadelphia.

"You end up with this security that's externally managed, that's invested in Brookfield funds and that has this diversified portfolio of all these different assets, Crowe said.

There's a lack of institutional capital that is willing to take on the changing retail environment, he said, but the fall in the stock price could encourage others to bid for GGP.

(Reporting by Herbert Lash; Editing by Daniel Bases and Leslie Adler)

ORLANDO, Fla. —  Every marriage has its ups and downs. So New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft urged everyone not to read too much into any reported discord in his organization.

Kraft praised Bill Belichick on Monday when asked about some of the unusual decisions the coach made in the Super Bowl loss to Philadelphia.

As for any split among owner, coach and star quarterback, Kraft said he has learned to work with "a strong and powerful coach."

"The so-called tension gets greater when you lose," Kraft added.

And with Brady, Kraft noted that the "feeling of a loss is worse than the feeling of a win" in a Super Bowl, except for that first victory.

"I think Tommy is in that category."

Kraft spoke to media at the NFL owners meetings and was grilled about everything from whether All-Pro tight end Rob Gronkowski will return for another season (Kraft never really answered, though he said he'd seen Gronkowski at the team facility this offseason) to why cornerback Malcolm Butler, now with the Titans, was benched for the Super Bowl.

Mostly, the questions were about friction in New England. Kraft said he has met with both Belichick and Brady, something he does regularly.

"I have faith in Bill as coach," Kraft said. "I don't think there's anyone (else) who has the football knowledge and expertise and understands personnel and is able to merge those. As someone privileged to own one of these teams, I encourage him to keep going with his instincts.

"This is not an energy firm where you go from A to B to C to D. I think Bill's structure has been pretty good most of the time and has worked pretty well."

Kraft admitted he was perplexed that Butler, a Super Bowl hero in the 2015 game, didn't play against the Eagles. But he acknowledged he was looking at it from a fan's viewpoint.

"There's no doubt in my mind that if he is doing it for the right reason," Kraft said of Belichick's decision, "I support it. I haven't had one instance where Bill has done any decision that was not in the best interest of the team."

While noting that Brady had an unparalleled season as a 40-year-old quarterback, including his third career MVP award, Kraft also recognized how difficult the final game of the 2017 season was for Brady.

"You don't get public with your feelings two weeks after a Super Bowl loss," he said.

Kraft got emotional when concluding the session by talking about lending the team's airplane to students from Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida so they could attend the "March For Our Lives" in Washington on the weekend.

"When they called and asked would you send a plane and help take the wounded kids and their families and kids who couldn't go on a normal plane, we didn't hesitate a minute," Kraft said. "Because think of it, all of you who have kids, think about losing one of your kids. You wake up in the morning and they go to school and don't come home at night.

"I just thought this is a way for our organization to be able to reach out to those people who are hurting bad. I can't think of a worse, unnatural thing of losing your child."

Then Kraft, a donor to the Trump campaign, criticized the legislative process and current environment in the nation's capital.

"I have a big problem with what's going on in Washington and the divisiveness," he said, "and no one's listening to one another and forgetting where you stand on this issue."

___

NEW YORK —  The threat of a trade war sent world stock markets broadly lower in choppy trading on Friday and boosted safer assets like the yen and government bonds, a day after U.S. President Donald Trump announced tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese goods.

Trump signed a presidential memorandum on Thursday that could impose tariffs on up to $60 billion of imports from China, although the measures have a 30-day consultation period before they take effect.

After another bruising week, a key gauge of world equity markets was broadly headed for its first quarterly loss since early 2016 as a spike in volatility, rising inflation and the specter of a trade war spooked investors who had enjoyed a multi-year bull run.

MSCI's gauge of stocks across the globe shed 1.8 percent. The index lost 3.4 percent this week for its worst week since early February when a spike in volatility had sent markets into a tailspin.

"The equity markets are getting clobbered, which is not that surprising with fears of a trade war breaking out," said Paul Fage, a TD Securities emerging markets strategist.

The losses accelerated near the close of U.S. trading.

The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 424.69 points, or 1.77 percent, to 23,533.20, the S&P 500 lost 55.43 points, or 2.10 percent, to 2,588.26 and the Nasdaq Composite dropped 174.01 points, or 2.43 percent, to 6,992.67.

The declines sent the Dow and the S&P 500 down more than 4 percent and more than 2.75 percent, respectively, for the year to date.

"There's a whole lot less predictability in the news flow after this week, and I don't think that gave investors a lot of confidence going into the weekend 'long' (stocks)," said Art Hogan, chief market strategist at B. Riley FBR in New York.

European stocks fell broadly, with the Euro Stoxx index dropping 0.9 percent. That followed large declines in Asia, where the Nikkei tumbled 4.5 percent and the Hang Seng index lost 2.5 percent.

China urged the United States to "pull back from the brink," but investors fear Trump's tariffs are leading the world's two largest economies into a trade war with potentially dire consequences for the global economy.

China disclosed its own plans on Friday to impose tariffs on up to $3 billion of U.S. imports in retaliation against U.S. tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminum products.

SAFETY

Amid the uncertain global economic climate, investors seeking safer assets jumped into government bonds in Europe and the United States.

Benchmark 10-year U.S. Treasury notes last rose 6/32 in price to yield 2.8117 percent, from 2.832 percent late on Thursday.

In Europe, benchmark issuer Germany's 10-year bond yields hovered close to 10-week lows struck a day earlier at around 0.52 percent. While German bond yields recovered in European trading, they suffered their biggest two-week drop since November.

Many investors also turned to the Japanese yen, a currency likely to benefit from a full-fledged trade war.

The currency gained as much as 0.6 percent against the dollar to 104.635 yen, the first time it has been below 105 since November 2016. Investors later booked profits to leave the yen up 0.1 percent at 105.19 yen per dollar.

The Swiss franc, another currency bought in times of market uncertainty, rose 0.2 percent versus the dollar, although it fell against the euro.

The dollar index, tracking it against other major currencies, fell 0.4 percent.

U.S. crude rose 2.6 percent to $65.97 per barrel and Brent was last at $70.55, up 2.4 percent.

(Editing by Jennifer Ablan and James Dalgleish)

Maureen Dowd: You wish I.A.C. owned Goop.

Barry Diller: Deny.

Newsweek should just fold already.

Confirm.

Your secret for success is that you don’t possess the need to be liked.

Deny. It’s certainly not true that I don’t care what anyone else thinks.

“Flashdance” was the greatest thing you produced.

More than deny.

Derek Blasberg is your favorite Instagram account.

I don’t have an Instagram account. When I want to see if something is trending, I will go on Twitter. But I don’t go to it daily.

John Malone once tried to run you over in his RV to get control of Expedia.

Deny. John Malone is my friend.

John Malone is a better investor than Warren Buffett.

Deny, deny.

You are happiest when you are in something that has an engine.

Extra confirm.

You prefer to drive yourself everywhere you go.

Confirm! I do.

You look at a parking ticket as the price of a good parking spot.

Yes.

You’re afraid of snakes.

Beyond wildly confirm.

You binge watch QVC.

Deny.

You don’t want anyone to talk to you about how great “Hamilton” is ever again.

Oh, confirm.

Your favorite new artist is Cardi B.

Unlikely. Deny.

The next generation of children will only communicate via emoji.

Deny.

Bill de Blasio is a great mayor.

He’s a good mayor.

Cynthia Nixon would be a great governor.

Deny. And yes, it’s because Cuomo is helping me with the island.

You would prefer Oprah in 2020 over any of the other Democrats right now.

Deny.

If only Jared hadn’t lost his security clearance, he would have solved Middle East peace.

Confirm. (Laughs.)

There’s only one thing you order off the Carlyle Hotel’s lunch menu: the chopped seafood salad.

I order egg salad from the Carlyle.

Facebook is a media company.

Deny.

You miss Gawker.

Deny.

Hearst is in better shape than Condé Nast.

Confirm.

You would rather run Facebook than Disney.

Deny.

You can parallel park your yacht, Eos, no problem.

Deny.

You’ve visited three-quarters of the countries in the world.

Oh, yes. The great thing about boats, if you love boats and I love boats and so does Diane, for adventuring rather than sitting in the Mediterranean or the Caribbean, is that our boat’s been everywhere. We’ve been every place you’ve never heard of. My favorite was Vanuatu. And I went night diving, which is glorious, in Raja Ampat in Indonesia.

You once made $465 million in a day.

I doubt that’s true, but I don’t know.

You and Donald Trump have the same favorite film, “Citizen Kane.”

Now I don’t like “Citizen Kane.”

DUESSELDORF, Germany —  World champions Germany drew 1-1 with Spain in a high tempo friendly on Friday as they launched their preparations for a title defence in Russia while their opponents had striker Diego Costa making his long-awaited comeback as a substitute.

Germany's Thomas Mueller scored with a long-range strike in the 35th minute to cancel out Rodrigo Moreno's early opener.

The hosts were made to work hard against the Spaniards, who are unbeaten under coach Julen Lopetegui, but still managed to stretch their own unbeaten run to 22 matches, one shy of the German record of 23 dating back to 1978-80.

They can now match it when they take on five-times world champions Brazil on Tuesday when Spain, the 2010 World Cup winners, host Argentina in Madrid.

"I think it was a very good test for both teams because both teams combine well when they have possession," said Germany coach Joachim Loew.

"Spain and us tried to increase the pressure, attack early, press early. It was a high intensity game and a good test to gain a lot of insight. We still have some room for improvement."

The visitors, with captain Sergio Ramos earning his 150th cap, went ahead when Rodrigo timed his run perfectly to pick up a superb through ball from Andres Iniesta and beat keeper Marc-Andre ter Stegen in the sixth minute.

The Germans, who at times struggled with their opponents' quick passing, managed to draw level with an unstoppable 20-metre strike from Mueller 10 minutes before the break.

BUSY KEEPERS

Keepers David de Gea and Ter Stegen were kept busy after  the break and Mats Hummels hit the crossbar with a looping header from a clever Toni Kroos free kick as both sides carved out good chances.

"We have a good feeling after this game against the best team in the world," said Lopetegui, whose own unbeaten run with Spain is now 17 games.

"We had chances to win the game. Germany are extremely fast and strong. We were fully motivated against the world champions."

Spain's Costa made his comeback as a substitute in the second half after the combative forward missed out on playing late last year when he was unable to feature for his club because of a FIFA transfer ban for signing minors.

Atletico completed a 57 million pound ($80.6 million) deal for Costa to rejoin them from Chelsea in September, but the move was delayed because the Liga club could not register new players due to the ban, which ended on Jan. 1.

His return is good news for Lopetegui's team, one of the title contenders at the World Cup in Russia starting in June.

The Germans have been drawn in Group F of the tournament, along with Mexico, South Korea and Sweden.

Spain are in Group B and will play Iran, Morocco and Portugal.

($1 = 0.7075 pounds)

(Reporting by Karolos Grohmann; Editing by Christian Radnedge and Ken Ferris)

Stamford, Conn. — Erik Agard, of Gaithersburg, Md., is a 24-year-old activist in his daily life, but he is no slouch in the crossword puzzle speed-solving department, either. He had never made it to the A division finals, but at the most recent American Crossword Puzzle Tournament, which was held Friday through Sunday, he found himself 50 points ahead of a seven-time champion, Dan Feyer of San Francisco, Ca.

Mr. Agard walked up to the board, crushed his oversize Afro with a pair of noise-cancelling headphones and handily dispatched the puzzle. Mr. Feyer solved the puzzle in 8:08 flat, but he was no match for Mr. Agard’s 4:58 solve. Long live the new king, at least for this year.

The host of the tournament, The New York Times’s crossword editor, Will Shortz, announced Mr. Agard’s victory and the audience leapt to their feet. People swarmed both the new champion and the unseated one to offer congratulations and consolation for making it that far.

Founded in 1978 by Mr. Shortz, the A.C.P.T. was originally a way for him to find his own tribe.

“One of my main goals in life is to connect people through puzzles,” he said, “A crossword tournament is one way — maybe the best way — to do this. Puzzle people tend to be smart, educated, interesting, and well-rounded people with lively minds. They’re the sort of people I like to be around.”

He is not alone. Some might find the idea of speed-solving New York Times crossword puzzles intimidating, but even newcomers are quickly embraced. Dawn Ross, of Santa Monica, Calif., is an enthusiastic participant because she had “never been part of something that is so egalitarian. You just have to like puzzles and then you’re part of the club.”

There are two kinds of people, crossword puzzle solvers like to say: those for whom working puzzles is a strictly solitary pursuit, and those who prefer to celebrate them with hundreds of friends over a weekend that closely resembles a family reunion of fervent word lovers.

For the latter group, walking through the revolving doors of the Marriott Hotel in Stamford, Conn., each spring is like coming home. Angela Olsen Halsted, of Arlington, Va., is not only a dedicated solver but has also had four crossword puzzles published in The New York Times. She calls this weekend her “happy place.”

In the crowded lobby on Friday afternoon, warm hugs were exchanged, puns were suitably groaned at and more than a few brave souls donned crossword-themed clothing, including Karen Chu of San Francisco, who strolled nonchalantly through the lobby dressed as a pencil.

Meanwhile, the perennial debate about which writing implement is best for competitive crossword solving raged on. Once again, there was no clear winner, but everyone agreed that penmanship counts. No one wants to lose points for an unclear entry.

On Friday evening, Mr. Shortz welcomed more than 670 contestants to the Marriott ballroom, noting that the turnout was the largest since the “Wordplay” bump, the sudden increase in attendance attributed to the popular 2006 documentary. It has gotten so popular that HBO’s “Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel” was filming an upcoming episode around the tournament, proving that writing letters in squares can finally be recognized as a sport.

By 8 p.m., everyone had been signed in and the evening festivities began. Mr. Shortz introduced Richard Rogan, the crossword editor at The Times of London. Mr. Rogan, an affable storyteller, regaled the audience with a funny talk about crossword solving competitions across the pond.

He also decided to compete, and while he is an expert cryptic crossword setter — the name used to describe a puzzle maker in the U.K. — he said he had not solved many American-style crosswords. This weekend, he was a Brit in Will Shortz’s Connecticut court.

On Saturday morning, the contestants gathered for the first puzzle, a relatively straightforward one meant to ease competitors into the speed-solving groove. Tournament officials fanned out to distribute puzzles to waiting hands. Even a mundane activity like this was exciting to competitors, because the 65 officials are the “glitterati” of the crossword world: the puzzle constructors and editors who deliver their obsession to them on a daily basis.

A large, digital clock ticked down the minutes — as if solving next to national speed-solving champions wasn’t pressure enough — and those who finished within the time limit mingled outside the ballroom to compare notes. The competitive aspect might be about speed, but the holy grail for all but a handful of the top solvers is to come away with a “clean” puzzle, which is one that is completed with no mistakes.

Six crossword puzzles of varying sizes and difficulties were completed on Saturday. This included the notorious Puzzle 5 — created this year by digital crosswords editor Joel Fagliano — and which Mr. Shortz referred to as the most mind-bending of the weekend’s challenges, using more colorful language than is allowed here.

It’s a mentally draining day by any standard, but there were social activities to bolster the weary.

Some who were flummoxed by a confusing theme in Puzzle 4 joined the survivors of Puzzle 5 in the Marriott bar to unwind over cocktails.

At 8 p.m., the ballroom filled once again. Matt Ginsberg talked about his computer program, Dr. Fill, which solved the more straightforward puzzles in a matter of seconds. A few people who resented Dr. Fill’s speed enjoyed the schadenfreude when the program missed a more complex theme that the human solvers understood. Robots have yet to outdo humans when it comes to playing with words.

If the ins and outs of computer programming were not to one’s taste, there was always a 10-minute play, by the playwright Donna Hoke, featuring a human crossword puzzle and his Sudoku sidekick, both of whom attempt to pick up a flirtatious pencil in a bar.

Sunday was all about trying to topple the reigning champion, Mr. Feyer, in the finals, but first there was the talent show. While the officials graded Puzzle 7, which was meant to shake out the top contenders, competitors and puzzle makers alike strutted their stuff with inside jokes, songs and performances about the joys and trials of crossword puzzle solving.

Midway through the singing and dancing, an official quietly slipped Mr. Shortz the latest standings that told him who would be going to the final rounds. The tournament offers prizes for a variety of age and geographic divisions, but only nine people — three in each of the A, B and C divisions — solved Puzzle 8 in front of the entire audience.

All three divisions get increasingly difficult cluing for the same puzzle, but the rarefied A division is for the top money — first prize is $5,000 — and the three solvers, Mr. Feyer, Mr. Agard and David Plotkin of Gainesville, Fla., had to puzzle the very hardest clues out. This year, the puzzle for the final round was made by the assistant crosswords editor, Sam Ezersky.

It’s at this point that the formerly “word nerd” atmosphere began to resemble a rowdy sporting event.

Color commentary was led by a puzzle maker, Greg Pliska, as well as Ophira Eisenberg, host of NPR’s “Ask Me Another” quiz show.

An audible gasp arose when a C division solver missed having a clean puzzle by one letter, and the entire room cheered whenever a finalist signaled that they were done. One of the B division finalists scrawled “Hi, Mom!” on the side of her puzzle. Photos and videos were taken and immediately posted on social media to let the members of the crossword puzzle tribe who couldn’t attend know what was happening.

As Jack Lechner, from Arlington, said, “This might be the only annual sporting event in which a rookie can go head-to-head with a national champion.”

TOPEKA, Kan. —  A water park company co-owner accused of rushing the world's tallest waterslide into service and a designer accused of shoddy planning were charged Tuesday in the decapitation of a 10-year-old boy on the ride in 2016.

With the latest charges, three men connected with Texas-based Schlitterbahn Waterparks and Resorts and its park in Kansas City, Kansas, have been indicted by a Kansas grand jury, along with the park and the construction company that built the ride. Caleb Schwab died on the 17-story ride when the raft he was riding went airborne and hit an overhead loop.

The Kansas attorney general's office said Schlitterbahn co-owner Jeffrey Henry, 62, and designer John Schooley were charged with reckless second-degree murder, along with Henry & Sons Construction Co., which is described as the private construction company of Schlitterbahn. Second-degree murder carries a sentence of 9 years to 41 years in prison.

They also were charged with 17 other felonies, including aggravated battery and aggravated endangerment of a child counts tied to injuries other riders sustained on the giant slide, called Verruckt, which is German for "insane." The indictment accuses Henry of making a "spur of the moment" decision to build the ride, and that he and Schooley lacked technical or engineering expertise in amusement park rides.

Henry was ordered held in a Texas jail without bond Tuesday, pending extradition to Kansas. The attorney general's office said Schooley is not in custody. Schooley didn't have a listed phone number and no one answered the phone at Henry & Sons Construction Co. Eric B Terry, who represented the company in an earlier unrelated case, didn't immediately return a phone or email message.

The same grand jury last week indicted the Kansas City park and Tyler Austin Miles, its former operations manager, on 20 felony charges. The charges include a single count of involuntary manslaughter in Schwab's death. Miles has been released on $50,000 bond, according to one of his attorneys, Tricia Bath.

The company has promised to aggressively fight the criminal charges. After Miles and the park were charged, it said it would respond to the allegations in the 47-page indictment "point by point."

After Henry's arrest in Texas, Schlitterbahn spokeswoman Winter Prosapio said in an emailed statement: "We as a company and as a family will fight these allegations and have confidence that once the facts are presented it will be clear that what happened on the ride was an unforeseeable accident."

According to the indictments, Henry decided in 2012 to build the world's tallest water slide to impress the producers of a Travel Channel show. Henry's desire to "rush the project" and a lack of expertise caused the company to "skip fundamental steps in the design process."

The indictment said, "not a single engineer was directly involved in Verruckt's dynamic engineering or slide path design." The indictment said that in 2014, when there were news reports emerging about airborne rafts, a company spokesperson "discredited" them and Henry and his designer began "secretly testing at night to avoid scrutiny."

The indictment listed 13 injuries during the 182 days the ride was in operation, including two concussions. In one of those cases, a 15-year-old girl went temporarily blind while riding.

Caleb, the son of Kansas Republican state Rep. Scott Schwab, was decapitated after the raft on which he was riding went airborne on a day when admission was free for state legislators and their families.

The family reached settlements of nearly $20 million with Schlitterbahn and various companies associated with the design and construction of the waterslide. The two women who rode on the same raft with Caleb suffered serious injuries and settled claims with Schlitterbahn for an undisclosed amount.

"Clearly the issues with Schlitterbahn go far beyond Caleb's incident, and we know the attorney general will take appropriate steps in the interest of public safety," the family said in a statement released Monday through their attorneys.

The indictment said Schooley was responsible for doing "the math" that went into the slide's design and signed an operations manual claiming the ride met all American Society for Testing and Materials standards. But the indictment lists a dozen instances in which the design violated those standards and says investigators could find no evidence that so-called dynamic engineering calculations were made to determine the physics a passenger would experience. The indictment said Schooley lacked the technical expertise to properly design a complex amusement ride such as Verruckt.

The indictment said Schooley admitted, "If we actually knew how to do this, and it could be done that easily, it wouldn't be that spectacular."

Prosapio said Schlitterbahn does not expect any changes to the Kansas City park's season, which is set to open May 25 and runs through Labor Day. The Verruckt slide has been closed since Caleb died.

Mike Taylor, a spokesman for the Unified Government of Wyandotte County and Kansas City, Kansas, says it does not believe it has the legal authority to shut down a business, other than for an epidemic or contagious disease outbreak.

The company also operates water parks in Galveston, Corpus Christi, South Padre Island and New Braunfels, Texas, according to its website.

___

Associated Press writers David Warren and Terry Wallace in Dallas also contributed to this report.

___

SAO MIGUEL DO OESTE, Brazil —  With a likely arrest in the coming weeks, Brazil's former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva campaigned Sunday to return to power with promises to unite a divided Brazil and defeat those who he alleges have cooked up false accusations to keep him off the ballot.

Da Silva's campaign "caravan" through southern Brazil has drawn admirers but has also been met with protests in recent days, and his supporters and detractors have occasionally tussled. At a rally Sunday night in Sao Miguel do Oeste, someone threw eggs toward the stage while da Silva and others spoke, prompting his security detail to open umbrellas to create a shield.

"I am ready to come back and to rebuild this country without hate, without suffering because when we have hate, we don't sleep well," he told supporters earlier in the day in the town of Nova Erechim after visiting a family farm. "Hate gives you heartburn."

The tour is occurring in the shadow of a court ruling scheduled for Monday, when judges could order that he begin serving his sentence on a corruption conviction. Even if they do, da Silva will remain free at least until early April because he has a habeas corpus petition pending at the Supreme Federal Tribunal, Brazil's top court.

But it seems all but certain that da Silva's days as a free man are numbered and that he will be jailed in the coming weeks. What comes next for him and for Brazil is less clear: Da Silva is leading polls for October's presidential election, but he is likely to be barred from running because of the corruption conviction. His Workers' Party has so far insisted that da Silva is their candidate, publicly shunning the idea of a Plan B.

Da Silva has denied the charges and says that they and a slew of other pending accusations amount to political persecution meant to keep him from regaining the presidency. The powerful symbolism of the once-beloved da Silva behind bars could further that message and rally the party faithful — but it's not clear who, if anyone, can take da Silva's place as the party's candidate. A January Datafolha poll indicated that da Silva would lead a crowded field with between 34 and 37 percent of votes in the first round. In scenarios that do not include da Silva, other Workers' Party politicians have polled in the low single digits. The poll had a margin of error of 2 percentage points.

That leaves the race for the presidency in Latin America's largest country wide open at a moment of extensive dissatisfaction. Unemployment is high as Brazil begins to recover from a punishing recession, and the sprawling Car Wash investigation has revealed corruption in the halls of power, turning many against the traditional elite.

Protesters left burning tires along da Silva's route Sunday, and a couple of hundred detractors met his entourage as it entered Sao Miguel do Oeste. Some threw eggs at the vehicles in the caravan, while others chanted: "Lula, thief! Your place is in prison!"

Earlier in the weekend, riot police used tear gas and rubber bullets to separate supporters and opponents who began to scuffle.

Da Silva, who is universally known as Lula in Brazil, left office in 2010 with sky-high approval ratings. But he has become a divisive figure in recent years. While he is a hero to many for the anti-poverty programs he implemented in office and his own rags-to-riches story, he is also seen as a symbol of the massive corruption that allegedly took place when his Workers' Party was in power.

Prosecutors have claimed that the Brazilian government was essentially run as a cartel during that time, with officials doling out state contracts, favors or plush political appointments in exchange for bribes and campaign donations. They have said that the system continued after power was handed to another party.

Da Silva was convicted last year of trading favors with construction company OAS in return for the promise of a beachfront apartment. The conviction was upheld by a group of federal magistrates in January and they increased his sentence to 12 years and one month in prison.

The appellate judges are expected to give final clarification on the ruling Monday, and they could issue a warrant for da Silva's arrest at the same time. His freedom would then depend on the Supreme Federal Tribunal, which is scheduled to rule on his habeas corpus petition on April 4.

He would still be able to continue to appeal his conviction, even while in jail. But Brazilian law says that he should be barred from seeking office in October.

___

Associated Press video journalist Mario Lobao reported this story in Sao Miduel do Oeste and AP writer Sarah DiLorenzo reported from Sao Paulo. AP journalists Eraldo Peres and Diarlei Rodrigues contributed to this report.

ALBANY, N.Y. —  It was a stellar day for the Pac-12 with Oregon State and UCLA both pulling off upsets to advance to the Elite Eight.

The sixth-seeded Beavers beat second-seeded Baylor, while the third-seeded Bruins knocked off No. 2 seed Texas.

It's UCLA's first trip to a regional final since 1999. It will face top-seeded Mississippi State on Sunday night for its first Final Four trip.

"I'm so happy for the seniors who were courageous enough to dream big and play big and have an opportunity to play for a spot in the Final Four," UCLA coach Cori Close said.

The Beavers will face top-seeded Louisville on Sunday for a trip to their second Final Four in three seasons. That year, Oregon State beat Baylor in the regional final to advance to the school's first Final Four.

The Cardinals spoiled a perfect night for the Pac-12, routing Stanford in the other semifinal in the Lexington Regional.

The other half of the Elite Eight will be set Sunday with the Albany and Spokane Regions set to play. The Mid-American Conference hopes for similar success to the Pac-12 by getting its two teams to advance. That would be a much taller order for the two 11 seeds: Central Michigan and Buffalo.

Both teams seem to be loose and ready to keep playing. Buffalo coach Felisha Legette-Jack buried a half-court shot during practice Friday.

Legette-Jack will need shooting like that from her team to knock off defending champion South Carolina. The Chippewas face No. 2 seed Oregon.

Oregon coach Kelly Graves knows all about taking an 11-seed on a deep run in the NCAA Tournament. He was the coach at Gonzaga when the Bulldogs made back-to-back Sweet 16 runs in 2011 and 2012. Graves has been the head coach of the last two double-digit seeds to reach a regional final — Gonzaga in 2011 as a No. 11 seed and Oregon last year as a No. 10 seed.

Graves was asked if he had any advice for the No. 11 seed based off his past success as a lower seed.

"Just play, be who you are. I don't think at this point it helps anybody to change or to add new things or anything like that," he said. "I think at this point pretty much every team has seen everything. They're not running anything tomorrow that we haven't seen before. I think just kind of be yourself, have fun with it."

Here are a few other tidbits from the women's regionals:

PERFECTION: Mississippi State star center Teaira McCowan was 11 for 11 from the field and made both of her free throws in the win over N.C. State.

"This time of year, you lose, you go home," McCowan said. "You basically start over. So my team, my seniors — the four I got — I'm just trying to make it the best it can be, go as far as possible."

TIMING: Louisville coach Jeff Walz complained about his team playing the late game Friday, more because of the burden on Cardinals fans having to make the drive with snow in the overnight forecast.

Turns out he had nothing to worry about from their fan base, which showed up for the Oregon State-Baylor semifinal and comprised much of the 5,715 that hung around for the nightcap.

Walz was feeling better after Louisville's rout, but still clock-watching.

"Are you past your deadlines?" he asked reporters. "We're past deadlines, so what you'll see is you can ask me as many questions tomorrow as you all would love to because I'd like to get these kids back to get into bed and we have a noon game on Sunday.

"My cell phone, I'll be happy to give it to you when we're done, you can call me, I'll give you as much as you want. But I'm finished with my statement because it's 12:10 right now and we play a noon game on Sunday. So I want to get these kids back to sleep. It's the student-athlete welfare that I think is important."

___

AP Sports Writers Tim Booth and Gary B. Graves contributed to this story.

NEW YORK (LPC) - Uber Technologies’ self-arranged term loan B was increased to US$1.5bn, justifying the taxi app company’s unconventional approach to raising the loan and succeeding despite news that one of the company’s self-driving cars had killed a pedestrian.

The groundbreaking seven-year new-money loan was placed with investors directly through Uber's capital markets team, rather than through a syndication process led by arranging banks, and also priced tight of guidance.

It is largely a bridge loan designed to fund Uber’s steep cash burn until its planned 2019 IPO, and also required investors to get comfortable with unusual credit metrics, including negative Ebitda.

The Uber car hit and killed Elaine Herzberg in Arizona late on March 18, in what is believed to be the first fatality involving a self-driving vehicle.

News of the accident emerged the following day, and Uber pulled forward the commitment deadline on its loan to March 21 from an original deadline of March 22.

Uber was still able to capitalize on strong investor demand and the deal size was increased by US$250m from US$1.25bn at launch.

After the accident, Uber said it would halt the self-driving program in Arizona, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Toronto and continue to assist local, state and federal authorities as concern rippled through the auto industry.

Proceeds were earmarked for general corporate purposes – a generic use that includes investment in autonomous vehicle technology, investors said.

“I’m guessing the pullback [in that investment] will be temporary,” one investor said.

Another investor said: “I do not think the death changes anything. Six thousand pedestrians are killed a year. People are thinking, if everything craps out, will someone buy this money-losing operation for more than my loan balance?”

The loan ultimately cleared at 400bp with a 1% Libor floor at 99.5, versus opening guidance of a 425bp-450bp over Libor range with a 1% floor and 99 OID.

LEVERAGELESS

The direct placement strategy was intended to avoid attracting scrutiny from US banking regulators because the loan might breach leveraged lending guidelines. The rules raise concerns about transactions having a debt-to-Ebitda ratio of over six times or deals that are unable to be paid down by half with cashflow over five to seven years.

Uber reported roughly negative US$2bn of Ebitda in 2017, two sources said, leaving potential investors without the traditional debt-to-Ebitda credit ratio that they rely on to conduct analysis.

“It’s just too hard do a ‘real’ analysis on it,” said the second investor.

Unusually, the loan was marketed on a loan-to-value ratio. Uber is touting an equity value of US$75bn, which would provide ample coverage for lenders, although that valuation is only implied.

The current valuation follows the purchase of a 17.5% stake in the company in January by an investor consortium led by Japan's Softbank that included a tender offer for existing shares at a US$48bn valuation and new equity at a US$68bn valuation.

Including capital expenditure and interest expense, the company burned through roughly US$3bn of cash last year. The loan will boost balance sheet cash to nearly US$6bn.

CLO TRADE

Uber’s leveraged loan market debut in 2016 was criticized by regulators. Morgan Stanley led the US$1.15bn TLB with Barclays, Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. The deal priced at 400bp over Libor with a 1% floor.

Regulated banks could not play a direct role in the new deal as Uber is a "criticized name", and Uber was reluctant to go outside its relationship bank group to an unregulated lead arranger, which led to the unconventional structure.

Morgan Stanley was the only bank to play an active role in the new deal, but as Uber's financial advisor rather than a conventional arranger. Unlike in the 2016 transaction, the bank did not serve as administrative agent.

Macquarie is also serving as an intermediary to CLOs seeking to play the deal. As offshore vehicles, CLOs are prohibited from investing in US loans directly because doing so would be construed as origination, which could otherwise subject them to US corporate income taxes.

CLOs must wait for a seasoning period – typically around 48 hours – during which the originator closes and funds the loan, before it is moved into the CLO via assignment. The process avoids any potential tax liabilities.

Macquarie, which is nonregulated and therefore not subject to the leveraged lending guidance, is funding some of the loan that will be assigned to CLO accounts. Cortland Capital Market Services is the administrative agent.

(This version of the story corrects Morgan Stanley's role in 2018 deal)

(Reporting by Andrew Berlin; Editing by Tessa Walsh; Additional reporting by Kristen Haunss)

Walmart customers looking to toss the latest issue of Cosmopolitan magazine into their shopping carts will have to search the superstore a little harder.

The retailer has decided to remove the magazine from its checkout aisle displays in its 5,000-plus stores in the United States, in a move announced by a nonprofit anti-pornography group that connected the company’s decision to the #MeToo movement.

The magazines will be placed on racks elsewhere, varying by store. The April issue features Cardi B, the reality star turned rapper, who gives an “uncensored and totally amazing” interview inside. Other headlines promise tips on sex toys and foreplay, the secrets of super-close couples and this teaser: “Could you be guilty of micro-cheating? Could he?”

Walmart, in a statement, acknowledged that “the concerns raised were heard” but said that its decision stemmed from business reasons.

“As with all products in our store, we continue to evaluate our assortment and make changes,” the statement said. When asked for further comment, Walmart indicated that there are a number of factors it evaluates when making in-store placement decisions, including customer feedback and sales data.

Nevertheless, the National Center on Sexual Exploitation, an advocacy group that has campaigned against what it calls Cosmopolitan’s “hyper-sexualized and sexually objectifying” content, took some credit for the move on Tuesday, citing its “collaborative dialogue” with Walmart.

“This is what real change looks like in our #MeToo culture,” said Dawn Hawkins, the group’s executive director, in a statement.

A Cosmopolitan spokesman declined to directly address the group’s description but emphasized the publication’s focus on female empowerment.

“We are proud of all that the brand has achieved for women around the world in the areas of equality, health, relationships, career, politics and social issues,” he said in a statement.

The magazine, which will still be available for purchase on periodical racks on Walmart stores, has been a focus of the nonprofit group for years. In 2015, the organization started a campaign to get stores to shield Cosmopolitan’s headlines and covers behind blinders or wraps similar to those that frequently cover pornographic material.

At that time, it worked with Victoria Hearst, the granddaughter of William Randolph Hearst, who founded Cosmopolitan’s publisher, the Hearst Group. The joint effort appeared to be successful.

Ms. Hearst, who now runs a “Cosmo Hurts Kids” campaign aimed at stopping the sale of the magazine to children under 18, was not involved in the center’s current push, according to according to Haley Halverson, the organization’s vice president for advocacy and outreach.

The group, which was founded in 1962 and was previously known as Morality in Media, has continued to focus on Cosmopolitan in part, Ms. Halverson said, because the magazine was “targeting young girls” with its messaging.

“A young teenager who first picks up Cosmo is going to be attracted to the bubble gum pink cover and to stories about Selena Gomez and One Direction,” Ms. Halverson said. “But within the covers, Cosmo is filled with extremely explicit articles that detail things like sexting, pornography, group sex, public sex and other forms of risky sex that actually a lot of young girls today are being pressured to do before they’re ready.”

Ms. Halverson also said the group viewed its efforts as especially important in the midst of the continuing conversation around sexual harassment that was sparked by the #MeToo movement.

“Cosmopolitan really likes to wrap itself up in its faux feminist mystique where they’re claiming that because they’re talking about sex, it’s liberating to women,” she said. “But it’s time to raise the level of discourse and say, ‘Well, are they talking about sex in an actually empowering or productive way?’”

When asked, Ms. Halverson could not think of an example of a publication or media organization discussing sexuality in the manner she described.

The statement linking Cosmopolitan to #MeToo culture was met with some skepticism online. The magazine has written multiple articles about the #MeToo movement, as well as the sexual assault and consent issues at its center.

In an article for Vogue, Michelle Ruiz, a former sex and relationships editor at Cosmopolitan, wrote that the publication has long advocated for consensual adult sex and has recently shifted its focus to women’s sexual pleasure.

John Harrington, a publishing industry consultant who until 2015 published a newsletter covering the magazine business, linked Walmart’s decision to larger trends. As magazine sales continue to decline, Mr. Harrington said, it was likely that Cosmopolitan’s sales at Walmart were following that trend.

But he also said that the retailer historically had appeared more responsive than other retailers to pressure from outside groups.

In the past, “they have occasionally moved magazines like Cosmopolitan and Glamour on an issue-by-issue basis,” Mr. Harrington said.

In 2003, Walmart announced plans to obscure the covers of those two publications, as well as Redbook and Marie Claire. That same year, its stores also stopped selling the men’s magazines Maxim, Stuff and FHM after pressure from Christian groups.

KUALA LUMPUR —  Asia's oil and gas producers are starting to revive projects aimed at deflating years of ballooning energy imports after new investment dried up following the 2014 industry crisis.

Spending has so far been driven mainly by state oil companies such as India's ONGC, Thailand's PTTEP and PetroVietnam, which need to produce more oil and gas to ensure their countries' energy security, executives said this week during an industry event in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.

Asia is by far the biggest, fastest-growing consumer of oil, yet its output is falling faster than in any other region. That mismatch more than doubled Asia's oil import bill to around $500 billion (354.1 billion pounds) last year, compared with year 2000 levels.

With oil prices back above $60 per barrel and at times flirting with $70 a barrel, oilfield service providers say there is renewed appetite for producers to spend and importers to cut import bills by investing in production. [O/R]

"Asia is a net importer of energy. I think there's a strong desire from Southeast Asian organizations to change that trend. We'll see a lot more potential developments here to try to balance that equation," said Ian Prescott, vice president for Asia with U.S. engineering company McDermott.

Fifty oil and gas fields in Southeast Asia, with a collective 4 billion barrels of oil equivalent in resources, will likely be approved for development between 2018 and 2020, according to consultancy Rystad Energy, requiring some $28 billion of capital expenditure from final investment decision (FID) to first production.

SPENDING REVIVAL

In one sign of revival, Abu Dhabi-owned Mubadala Petroleum, Malaysia's state-owned Petronas [PETR.UL] and Anglo-Dutch oil major Royal Dutch Shell agreed to spend $1 billion on a shallow-water gas project in Malaysia this week.

In India, changes to gas pricing policies revived activities in its eastern deepwater fields, led by ONGC and a joint venture between Reliance Industries and BP.

"India has waited too long to enter deepwater. Deepwater development makes more sense for the country (India) than importing LNG at $8 per million British thermal units," Ashish Bhandari, a vice president at GE-owned oil service company Baker Hughes, said at the OTC Asia conference.

In Southeast Asia, PetroVietnam is developing a large gas field known as Block B, while Thailand's PTTEP is on the hunt for more gas supplies in the region to meet demand in Thailand and Myanmar.

Despite the uptick in activity, exploration for new oil and gas remains lower in Asia than elsewhere, especially onshore North America and in the Atlantic basin.

Kevin Robinson, vice president of Malaysia's oil and gas service company Sapura Energy, said the main factors deterring investment in Asia were tough fiscal regimes, cumbersome bureaucracies, and maturing fields with limited future reserves.

"It's a reality check for governments in Asia to look at how much investment they are getting, and how they need to improve their fiscal terms to attract more investment," Robinson said.

ONGC's director of offshore, Rajesh Kakkar, said the "easy oil is gone ... what is left is deepwater, high pressure, and high temperature", making extraction more costly.

But given competition from cheap producers in the Middle East and soaring output from shale drillers in the United States, Petronas' Chief Executive Officer Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin said there was pressure to keep costs low.

"While oil prices are showing signs of recovery, the sustainability of these prices remains to be seen ... If we don't keep these escalating costs in check, the industry runs the risk of negating the value we have gained from intensive cost efficiency efforts over the last 3 years."

(Reporting by Florence Tan, Emily Chow and A. Ananthalakshmi; Editing by Henning Glostein and Tom Hogue)

Arnold R. Hirsch, a historian whose landmark study of Chicago documented the role of government policy in creating highly segregated African-American ghettos during the mid-20th century, died on March 19 in Oak Park, Ill. He was 69.

The cause was complications of Parkinson’s disease and Lewy body disease, according to his son Adam.

Professor Hirsch’s best-known book, “Making the Second Ghetto: Race and Housing in Chicago, 1940-1960,” published in 1983, began as an inquiry into the causes of the urban riots that racked American cities in the late 1960s, including the disturbances that followed the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.

Unlike the Kerner Commission and other bodies that focused on the proximate causes of the civil unrest, Professor Hirsch focused on the period immediately after the Great Depression and, in particular, the two decades following World War II. In that period, millions of African-Americans moved from the South to the North in a second Great Migration as transformative as the earlier one, which lasted from 1890 to 1930.

Most ended up in hypersegregated neighborhoods, often in cheaply constructed and poorly maintained public housing that, in the 1970s, would become emblems of urban decay and malaise.

Segregation, Professor Hirsch found, was not a natural process, or the mere outcome of individual prejudice and choices, but was rooted in institutional interests, including profit-seeking.

There was not just one villain: Politicians, business executives, and ostensibly liberal institutions like the University of Chicago were culprits, he wrote, but so, too, were working-class whites, who, manipulated by speculators, reacted with panic, hostility and violence when African-Americans tried to move into previously all-white neighborhoods.

The late 1940s were a period of “hidden violence,” equivalent in scope to that of 1917-1921, when Chicago experienced a racially motivated bombing or arson every 20 days. (Dozens of people died in the 1919 riot in Chicago.)

The Chicago Commission on Human Rights (formerly the Mayor’s Commission on Race Relations), which was established after the June 1943 Detroit riot, urged newspaper editors to play down the discord, including an August 1947 attack on black veterans in the Fernwood Park neighborhood and a November 1949 riot that broke out in the Englewood district over rumors that African-Americans were looking to buy in the neighborhood.

Thanks to television, the violence burst into full view in July 1951, when a crowd of at least 2,000 and possibly as many as 5,000 whites in the suburb of Cicero attacked an apartment building after one black family had moved into one of its 20 units. Later that decade, schools, playgrounds, parks and beaches became the sites of racial conflict.

Ambitious programs, billed as “urban renewal,” in South Side neighborhoods like Hyde Park-Kenwood and Lake Meadows reinforced segregation. Black politicians, like Representative William L. Dawson, the first African-American to be named chairman of a congressional committee, were muted in their opposition to such projects, partly because they were beneficiaries of the patronage of the city’s entrenched Democratic machine.

Meanwhile, the so-called “white flight” to the suburbs deprived cities of vital tax revenues, exacerbating the problems of the poor neighborhoods.

Professor Hirsch likened the process of ghetto creation and maintenance to the “containment” policies that sought to curb communist expansion abroad during the Cold War. He insisted that the urban crises of the 1960s and ’70s had not been the fault of President Lyndon B. Johnson’s Great Society programs, which some characterized as liberal excesses, but rather had originated in decisions made a generation earlier.

“The compounded shortcomings of slum clearance, urban renewal and segregated high-rise public housing resulted not from an unfettered liberalism’s social experimentation during the civil rights era, but, rather, from a conservative reaction more emblematic of the 1950s and the Cold War,” Professor Hirsch wrote in 1997 in a new foreword to the book.

He added: “The ‘second ghetto’ did not just happen. It was willed into existence.”

His other books included two collections he edited, one on creole New Orleans and the other on urban policy in 20th-century America.

Arnold Richard Hirsch was born on March 9, 1949, the younger son of Nathan Hirsch, a businessman, and the former Mollie Shulman, who worked in a bank loan department. He grew up in the West Rogers Park section of Chicago, graduated from the University of Illinois at Chicago in 1970 and received a Ph.D. in history, from the same institution, in 1978.

There, he studied with Gilbert Osofsky, the author of “Harlem: The Making of a Ghetto” (1963), who, until his death at 39 in 1974, was a mentor to Professor Hirsch.

Professor Hirsch began teaching history at the University of New Orleans in 1970 and was an emeritus professor there at his death. Along with his son Adam, he is survived by his wife, the former Rosanne Bernover; a younger son, Jordan; and two grandchildren.

Thomas J. Sugrue, a professor of history at New York University whose landmark study of postwar Detroit was heavily influenced by Professor Hirsch’s work on Chicago, praised him as an “unfailingly generous” scholar.

“He listened to our half-baked ideas, commented on our conference papers, hammered out ideas over lunches and dinners, steered us to great sources, and shared his work without hesitation,” Professor Sugrue said. “Arnie never treated younger scholars, even those of us who built on and challenged some of his arguments, as rivals. He listened and learned and shared and pushed us further.”

The Iran nuclear accord, assailed by President Trump and his revamped retinue of advisers, received a strong endorsement Monday from a bipartisan group of more than 100 national security veterans, who said the United States gains nothing by scrapping it.

The group, including 50 retired military officers and at least four former American ambassadors to Israel, added its voice to a fractious debate over the accord, which Mr. Trump has called “the worst deal” ever.

In a statement, the group, which calls itself the National Coalition to Prevent an Iranian Nuclear Weapon, enumerated 10 reasons that, in its view, preserving the accord is in the best interests of the United States.

They included the determination by United Nations inspectors that the accord is working; the importance of preserving close relations with major European allies, which all support the accord; and the possibility of reaching a nuclear agreement with North Korea, which might not negotiate if it believes that the United States abrogates international pledges.

“President Trump should maintain the U.S. commitment to the Iran nuclear deal,” the signers said in the statement. “Doing so will bring substantial benefits and strengthen America’s hand in dealing with North Korea, as well as Iran, and help maintain the reliability of America’s word and influence as a world leader. Ditching it would serve no national security purpose.”

The signers cover a range of prominent diplomatic and military figures, Democrat and Republican, spanning decades of foreign policy experience. They include Brent Scowcroft, a former national security adviser; Gen. Michael V. Hayden, former director of the National Security Agency and the Central Intelligence Agency; former Senators Richard G. Lugar and Sam Nunn; Adm. Eric T. Olson, former commander of Special Operations Forces; and Adm. William J. Fallon, former commander of the United States Central Command.

Former ambassadors who signed include Ryan C. Crocker, who served in Afghanistan, Iran, Pakistan, Syria, Kuwait and Lebanon; Daniel C. Kurtzer, who served in Israel and Egypt; James B. Cunningham, who served in the United Nations, Israel and Afghanistan; Thomas R. Pickering, a former under secretary of state who served in Israel, Russia, India, El Salvador, Nigeria, Jordan and the United Nations; and William C. Harrop, who served in Israel and as the State Department’s inspector general.

The release of their statement came less than two months before an American law requires Mr. Trump to decide whether to restore nuclear-related sanctions on Iran. He has suggested that he will restore them, which would effectively terminate the American pledge to heed the nuclear agreement’s provisions.

The 2015 agreement, negotiated under President Barack Obama, curtails Iran’s nuclear activities in exchange for eased economic sanctions. It provides for unprecedented international inspections of Iranian facilities to ensure compliance with Iran’s repeated vow that it will never develop a nuclear weapon.

Mr. Trump has criticized provisions of the agreement that expire after a number of years, arguing they should be permanent. He also has complained that the accord does not prohibit Iran’s ballistic missile activities.

His views have been welcomed by the governments of Israel and Saudi Arabia, which both see Iran as a regional menace, and in Israel’s view, an existential threat.

Britain, France and Germany, which signed the nuclear accord, agree with Mr. Trump’s concern about Iranian missiles, but say that issue should be discussed separately.

Iran has said it will not renegotiate the nuclear agreement.

The prospects that Mr. Trump will terminate American participation rose significantly in the past few weeks, when he dismissed his secretary of state and national security adviser, replacing them with loyalists who are outspoken in their antipathy toward Iran.

Mr. Trump’s new choices for secretary of state, the C.I.A. director Mike Pompeo, and for national security adviser, the former ambassador John R. Bolton, have both denounced the nuclear agreement.

Wendy R. Sherman, a former under secretary of state who was the lead American negotiator for the nuclear agreement, said in an Op-Ed essay published in The New York Times on Monday that Mr. Bolton’s elevation, in particular, “has only cemented the expectation that the nuclear deal’s life expectancy is short.”

Catherine Sara Schwartz and Daniel Isaac Markowitz are to be married March 25 at Pen Ryn Estate in Bensalem, Pa. Rabbi Jennifer Goldsmith is to officiate.

The bride, who is 29 and will be taking her husband’s name, is the director of marketing and communications in New York for the Metropolitan Coordinating Council on Jewish Poverty, which provides social services for poor New Yorkers. She graduated from Muhlenberg College and received a dual master's degree in public administration and Hebrew and Judaic Studies from New York University.

She is a daughter of Marilyn B. Schwartz of Yardley, Pa., and Jerome L. Schwartz of Sunrise, Fla. The bride’s father is an accountant in private practice in Tamarac, Fla. Her mother is a founder and director of Kids' MusicRound, an early childhood music program based in Yardley that offers music classes for children ages 5 and younger.

The groom, 28, is the director of animation at Driver Digital Studios, a production studio in New York. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania.

He is the son of Dawn S. Markowitz and Dr. Arnold J. Markowitz of New York. The groom’s mother is the legal editor in New York for Trusts & Estates magazine. His father is a gastroenterologist at Memorial Sloan Kettering in New York.

The couple met through OkCupid in February 2016, and quickly bonded over their interest in the Broadway show “Hamilton,” which Ms. Schwartz had already seen.

“He wasn’t the kind of stereotypical guys I had been meeting online,” Ms. Schwartz said. “Guys who would write ridiculous things that they thought were clever.”

They made plans to see “Hamilton” on their first date, set for March 1, but as it turned out, Ms. Schwartz scored tickets to “The Book of Mormon” for the same night, and asked Mr. Markowitz if he would still like to go along. He accepted her invitation, and before heading to the theater they went to dinner, where each earned a rave review from the other.

“He was really handsome and really funny and smart,” Ms. Schwartz said.

Mr. Markowitz, who admits to being “someone who is a little awkward and not very good when it comes to making small talk,” said “she was so bubbly and easy to talk to, the conversation just kept flowing.”

Though their fourth date was a 12-hour marathon, “there were no awkward pauses,” Mr. Markowitz said. They went to the Central Park Zoo and lake, a bowling alley in Times Square, a movie followed by dinner followed by a trip to his apartment to watch “Saturday Night Live.”

“We just never ran out of things to say,” he said. The dating was easy. The relationship grew.

On March 1, 2017, their one-year anniversary, they decided to celebrate by going to see “Hamilton.”

Unbeknown to Ms. Schwartz, Mr. Markowitz also planned on proposing that night. Through a friend of a friend who knew a member of the “Hamilton” cast, he arranged to take Ms. Schwartz onstage after the performance, where he would pop the question in front of family members and friends.

Determined to keep his plan a secret, Mr. Markowitz returned home from work that night with the engagement ring hidden in one of his socks and later at the theater, he excused himself and went to the bathroom to switch the ring to a jacket pocket.

“When I got back to my seat, I moved Catherine away from me every time she got close enough to feel the ring box,” he said.

At show’s end, Mr. Markowitz told her he wanted to have their photo taken near the stage and was met there by the actress Mandy Gonzalez (who plays Angelica Schuyler.) Ms. Gonzalez, who knew what was about to happen, took them onstage where other cast members were milling around.

Mr. Markowitz texted his sister to bring in both families, but he began sweating when she texted back: “Stall.”

A few family members were about two minutes late, and now it was up to Mr. Markowitz, who feared security would soon escort him off the stage, to keep the conversation flowing until they arrived. “It was the longest few minutes of awkward small talk in my life,” he said.

Mr. Markowitz and Ms. Schwartz were soon in the spotlight, surrounded by cast members and invited guests who watched him drop to one knee and begin another conversation, this one ending with her “Yes,” and a rousing ovation.

“April cried and stepped aside”: So goes one of Oscar Hammerstein’s lovely lyrics for “Carousel.” But apparently Broadway doesn’t listen.

Instead, every April, the theater district reaches a noisy climax as the season crashes into the Tony Awards eligibility deadline. This year, nine shows open between the 8th and the 26th, all of them would-be prize magnets. You probably already know a lot of the titles: Tina Fey’s musicalized “Mean Girls,” the two-part “Harry Potter and the Cursed Child” and dueling Golden Age revivals of “My Fair Lady” and, yes, “Carousel.”

If you’ve got 15 hours and half a grand (or more) to spare, see ’em all.

But you might want to consider some less-buzzy titles, both on and Off Broadway, that are also, as Hammerstein wrote of May, “full of promises.”

Mark Medoff’s drama about the relationship between a smug speech therapist and the pugnacious woman he’s trying to teach is difficult to cast. Not so much because the woman, Sarah, is deaf; there are many excellent deaf actors. But she must also be young and ferocious and profoundly charismatic, which are the right words to describe Lauren Ridloff, a former Miss Deaf America. When I saw her in the Berkshires tryout of the play last summer, I thought she was sensational.

The speech therapist is also difficult to cast. Because he acts as an interpreter for both the hearing and the deaf, he must be fluent in American Sign Language while also speaking the lines. And because his character suffers from borderline obnoxiousness syndrome, he needs a lot of natural charm to counteract it.

The production opening on Broadway this month, directed by Kenny Leon, is lucky to have Joshua Jackson, best known for television work including “The Affair,” in the role. He’s an even match for Ms. Ridloff, which is saying something.

Tickets: childrenofalessergodbroadway.com

For the follow-up to her 2017 Pulitzer Prize winner, “Sweat,” Lynn Nottage leaves broken-down Reading, Pa., for Kenya, and leaves the hollowed-out factory workers there for … elephants?

Yes, “Mlima’s Tale,” a play about the black market “ivory highway,” stars Sahr Ngaujah (Broadway’s “Fela!”) as the title pachyderm. The rest of the Public Theater’s cast — Kevin Mambo, Ito Aghayere and Jojo Gonzalez — play a variety of characters, from poachers to collectors, who come into contact with Mlima serially, in the manner of “La Ronde.”

But don’t expect romantic roundelays from Ms. Nottage, for whom politics is never far from the surface. After all, this 90-minute drama, directed by Jo Bonney, opens just as the United States is lifting its Obama-era ban on big-game trophies and as the death of the last male white rhinoceros has assured the extinction of that overhunted animal.

Tickets: publictheater.org

George Bernard Shaw’s “Saint Joan” offers one of the most coveted title roles in the canon. Among the maids who have led France against the English in the eight Broadway productions since 1923 are Katharine Cornell, Uta Hagen, Siobhán McKenna, Diana Sands and Lynn Redgrave. Now, Condola Rashad — so startling last year in “A Doll’s House, Part 2” and a lovely Juliet in 2013 — is the ninth to step up to the stake.

Coveted it may be, but the role is tricky. How, after all, do you play a 17-year-old girl who believes she hears God in the bells of her hometown and not make her seem, in our day, crazy? How do you reconcile the historical Joan, burned for heresy and canonized for faith, with Shaw’s Joan, a martyr for the cause of freethinking?

Luckily, the Manhattan Theater Club production — at the Samuel J. Friedman Theater, its Broadway house — is directed by Daniel Sullivan, who has experience solving such interpretive riddles. His 2010 staging of “The Merchant of Venice” made emotional sense of a play that many thought had become unproducible.

Tickets: www.manhattantheatreclub.com

From “Hair” to “Hamilton,” the Public Theater has a good track record with musicals that rethink what a musical can be. Its latest, “Miss You Like Hell,” with a book by Quiara Alegría Hudes (“In the Heights,” “Water by the Spoonful”) and songs by the indie singer-songwriter Erin McKeown, is no different: It tells an American road trip story, but not the usual kind.

Daphne Rubin-Vega (“Rent”) plays Beatriz, an artist who is also an undocumented Mexican immigrant, and Gizel Jiménez plays Olivia, her estranged 16-year-old daughter. Why Beatriz shows up at Olivia’s window one night, spiriting her away on a cross-country journey, is part of the mystery that gets cleared up as the miles go by.

Lear deBessonet, founder of the wonderful Public Works program, directs.

Tickets: publictheater.org

You wouldn’t think that a play starring Denzel Washington, who has made Broadway hits out of “Fences” and “Julius Caesar,” would need extra help luring an audience. But at four or five hours long, depending on how it’s cut and directed, Eugene O’Neill’s classic drama about the American cult of hopefulness can seem intimidating.

It needn’t be, as the most recent major revival, starring Nathan Lane at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, proved. For one thing, its portrait of the lost-soul habitués of a Manhattan saloon — a “Who’s Who in Dipsomania” — is never less than compelling. For another, those barflies, tarts, anarchists and con artists are all juicy roles that, when cast well, promise fireworks.

You would expect fireworks anyway from a production directed by George C. Wolfe, who brings a musical sensibility to large-scale plays. (He directed the Broadway premiere of “Angels in America.”) But Mr. Washington is also surrounded at the Bernard B. Jacobs Theater by a cherry-picked company of top stage actors, including Bill Irwin, David Morse, Tammy Blanchard, Reg Rogers and Frank Wood.

Tickets: icemanonbroadway.com

SKOPJE, Macedonia — Quick quiz. Which of the following makes sense?

a) Three pirate ships on a river in a landlocked country in the Balkans;

b) A 47-foot-high bronze statue of an ancient warrior that is Alexander the Great and is also not Alexander the Great; or

c) A house dedicated to Mother Teresa, a saint known for her modesty, done up in an opulent style that can best be described as Miami meets the Flintstones.

Answer: None, unless you are in Skopje, Macedonia. They all have a home there as part of a long-running face-lift for the city, which has turned it into what could be one of the kitschiest capitals on the planet.

About a decade ago, the then-governing party of Macedonia came up with an idea for a citywide building and renovation project as a way to claim ownership of its history and draw in tourists.

Hundreds of new sculptures were put up across the city, and many new buildings erected in the center of town. Dozens of false facades were added to Communist-era buildings, while scores of plaques appeared, attesting to events with varying degrees of historical accuracy.

The project cost hundreds of millions more than public projections and has been roundly derided by urban planners and architects, who say it was rushed into reality at the cost of structural integrity and functionality. It was a central issue in the protests in 2015 that led to the defeat of the ruling party.

Nikola Strezovski, a 37-year-old architect, has watched the project — called Skopje 2014 because it was supposed to be completed in 2014 — with a mixture of disgust, anger and confusion.

“Skopje 2014 was something that shocked us all the time,” he said. “By the time the pirate ships arrived on the Vardar River, we were used to crazy.”

When the new government came into power last spring, its first move was to halt all of the projects, including the construction of a London-style Ferris wheel on the river and the recladding of the city’s tallest glass building in a plastic foam and plaster facade intended to make it look neo-Classical.

But after spending around $750 million — in a country where the average wage is less than $500 per month — the capital has been transformed.

It is not the first time Skopje has been rebuilt. The last time, natural forces were responsible.

In 1963, an earthquake laid waste to the city, killing more than 1,000 people and making another 100,000 homeless. Roughly 80 percent of the city’s structures were destroyed.

The United Nations held a competition to find an architect to help rebuild. The winner was Kenzo Tange, a pioneer of the 1960s avant-garde Metabolist movement, which held that cities, like living organisms, had to constantly grow and change and should be built so that their parts could be replaced as time passed.

His vision, though, was never fully realized. Instead, what emerged was a strange mishmash of Modernist buildings, Brutalist structures and dour Soviet-style block houses, many of which long ago fell into disrepair.

Architecture represents the society that creates it, said Mr. Strezovski, who recently led me on a four-hour walking tour of Skopje. And the city today, he said, radiates the insecurity of the previous ruling party.

“Architecture at its heart is about honesty,” he said, adding that covering buildings in false facades, as Skopje 2014 did, is about as dishonest as you can get.

It makes sense, he said, given how many former members of the political party responsible for the project, including the former prime minister, are now on trial for corruption and other offenses.

When the former Prime Minister Nikola Gruevski announced the project, he argued that it would create much-needed jobs and bolster national pride. And there are those who appreciate it, even for its sheer madness. Ultimately, it was all about more than aesthetics; it was an effort to stake a claim to a disputed historical heritage.

For more than two decades, Greece has fought Macedonians’ efforts to call their country Macedonia, blocking its entry into NATO and the European Union. It is a complicated dispute as much about modern politics as historical reality, but it boils down to this: Greeks believe that ancient Macedonians were a Hellenistic people and that the true Macedonia is a part of Greece.

People here, though, believe that because their land was part of the ancient Macedonian kingdom ruled by Alexander the Great, they have every right to call themselves Macedonian.

When Skopje 2014 was conceived, the ruling party wanted it both ways: to claim their history, but not so blatantly as to derail negotiations with Greece over the name issue.

So a statue of a warrior on a horse set high upon a pedestal in a fountain flanked by lions in the city’s central plaza is called “warrior on a horse.” Yet everyone understands it to be a depiction of Alexander the Great, ruler of the ancient Macedonian kingdom.

Across the Vardar River, which bisects the city, is a statue of a man, fist raised into the air and looking at the Alexander statue and the Vodno Mountain in the distance. He is not identified as Alexander’s father, Philip II, although everyone knows that is who it is.

Visitors to the city will first notice the statues. There is no official count, but estimates put the number around 1,000. They adorn parks, roads, squares, bridges and the rooftops of buildings, and were even plunked into the river itself, where the three pirate ships house restaurants, although not ones wildly popular with locals.

Of course, no pirates ever roamed the Vardar. And even if pirates had wanted to come to this landlocked country, the ships could never pass under the ancient stone bridge that leads across the river to the Ottoman bazaar, which mostly survived the earthquake.

With its narrow, winding cobblestone streets and low-slung rooflines, the bazaar seems a world away from the monumental memorials and statues that surround it.

Here and there are still traces of some of the city’s more prized Modernist buildings, including the opera house.

“It would have cost too much to tear down or redesign the opera house,” Mr. Strezovski said. “So instead, they put some buildings in front of it to hide it.”

Those buildings, for government offices, are adorned with dancing nymphs and statues of great women throughout history. One of the buildings, the National Archive, is now leaking, Mr. Strezovski said. Others have structural problems.

Mr. Strezovski said he could appreciate how people might be amused at how bizarre it all is. Unfortunately, it came at a great cost, and much of it was built so poorly that it is unlikely to last.

He pointed to palm trees, put in as part of the project, that are still struggling to survive on the riverbank.

“Palm trees, here,” he said, noting that temperatures in the winter can drop to 30 degrees below zero Fahrenheit.

They cost over $600,000, according to an investigation by the news site Balkan Insight. “Around 95 percent died in the first year,” Mr. Strezovski said.

WASHINGTON — For the second time this term, the Supreme Court heard arguments on Wednesday about whether voting maps can be so distorted by politics that they violate the Constitution.

As they had when an earlier case was argued in October, many of the justices agreed that partisan gerrymandering is a serious problem that disfigures democracy. But there was no indication on Wednesday that they had come to an agreement about whether the courts can address the problem.

“It seems like a pretty clear violation of the Constitution in some form to have deliberate, extreme gerrymandering,” Justice Stephen G. Breyer said. “But is there a practical remedy that won’t get judges involved in dozens and dozens and dozens of very important political decisions?”

Justice Samuel A. Alito Jr. said that redistricting conducted by politicians was necessarily political. “Hasn’t this court said time and again you can’t take all consideration of partisan advantage out of districting?” he asked.

Were the Supreme Court to forbid taking account of politics in drawing voting maps, he said, “I really don’t see how any legislature will ever be able to redistrict.”

The justices largely agreed that the oddly shaped Maryland congressional district at issue, drawn by Democrats in the Legislature, was an extreme example of distasteful political gamesmanship.

“It doesn’t seem to have any internal logic,” Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. said of the district, which stretches from northwestern Maryland to the Washington suburbs. He added that the district had been redrawn in a way “that prefers one party over another.”

Justice Elena Kagan said it sometimes might be hard to tell when politics played too large a role, but she said that was not a problem here. “However much you think is too much,” she said, “this case is too much.”

But it was not at all clear that the court was prepared to say the Constitution may place limits on extreme partisan gerrymandering, where the party in power draws voting districts to give itself an outsize advantage in future elections.

The Supreme Court has never struck down a voting district as an unconstitutional partisan gerrymander. A ruling allowing such challenges could revolutionize American politics.

Wednesday’s arguments provided little information about whether the justices are prepared to take that step. Indeed, if arguments in October in the earlier case, a Democratic challenge of a Republican map from Wisconsin, had heartened opponents of extreme partisan gerrymandering, Wednesday’s arguments in the Maryland case only served to confuse them.

Justice Anthony M. Kennedy, who probably holds the crucial vote in both cases, returned to a theme he had pursued in the arguments in the Wisconsin case, asking whether a law that required partisan gerrymandering in so many words would violate the Constitution.

Steven M. Sullivan, Maryland’s solicitor general, said it would.

Justice Kennedy asked, “How is this case different?” Mr. Sullivan said the redistricting law did not expressly call for a partisan advantage.

Justice Kennedy was not satisfied. “So if you hide the evidence of what you’re doing, then you’re going to prevail?” he asked.

The court’s surprise announcement in December that it would hear the second partisan gerrymandering case, Benisek v. Lamone, No. 17-333, led to much speculation about what the move meant for the challengers in the Wisconsin case, Gill v. Whitford, No. 16-1161. But Wednesday’s argument did almost nothing to clear up the mystery of why the justices decided to hear a second case.

If there was a hint about where the court was headed in the Wisconsin case, it came from Justice Breyer, who suggested that the court schedule a new round of arguments in both cases, along with one from North Carolina, in the term that will start in October. His question suggested that at least some of the challengers could not demonstrate that they had suffered the sort of direct injury that gave them standing to sue.

“What would you think,” Justice Breyer asked, “of taking the three cases and setting them for re-argument on the question of standing and there we’d have all three variations in front of us?” he asked a lawyer for the challengers, Michael B. Kimberly. But Justice Breyer’s real audience seemed to be his colleagues, none of whom spoke up in support of the proposal.

Justice Breyer, who seems ready to allow constitutional challenges based on partisan gerrymandering, probably would not have made the suggestion had his views prevailed when the justices took their preliminary vote in the Wisconsin case in October.

Several justices said the Maryland case was plagued by procedural and practical problems.

Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg said there was little reason for the court to rule now because its decision would come too late to affect the 2018 elections.

“It’s much too late, even if you were successful, for there to be any change for the 2018 election,” Justice Ginsburg told Mr. Kimberly. Justice Kennedy seemed to agree. Chief Justice Roberts and Justice Sonia Sotomayor said the challengers had waited too long to file suit.

Mr. Kimberly, representing the plaintiffs, argued that Democratic state lawmakers there had redrawn a district in northwestern Maryland to retaliate against citizens who supported its longtime incumbent, Representative Roscoe G. Bartlett, a Republican. That retaliation, he said, violated the First Amendment by diluting their voting power in a district that had been controlled by Republicans.

Mr. Bartlett had won his 2010 race by a margin of 28 percentage points. In 2012, he lost to Representative John Delaney, a Democrat, by a 21-point margin.

Several justices said the evidence of extreme partisan gerrymandering was strong.

“People were very upfront about what they were trying to do here, which was to create another Democratic district,” Justice Kagan said. “And they did that.”

In the past, some justices have said the court should stay out of such political disputes. Others have said partisan gerrymanders may violate the Constitution.

Justice Kennedy has taken a middle position, leaving the door to such challenges open a crack, though he has never voted to sustain one.

In 2004, he wrote in a concurring opinion on a gerrymandering case that he might consider a challenge if there were “a workable standard” to decide when such tactics crossed a constitutional line. But he said he had not seen such a standard.

In the Maryland case, a divided three-judge panel of the United States District Court in Maryland in August denied the challengers’ request for a preliminary injunction. In dissent, Judge Paul V. Niemeyer, who ordinarily sits on the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., wrote that partisan gerrymandering was a cancer on democracy.

“The widespread nature of gerrymandering in modern politics is matched by the almost universal absence of those who will defend its negative effect on our democracy,” Judge Niemeyer said. “Indeed, both Democrats and Republicans have decried it when wielded by their opponents but nonetheless continue to gerrymander in their own self-interest when given the opportunity.”

“The problem is cancerous,” he wrote, “undermining the fundamental tenets of our form of democracy.”

Over video, chat and text — though rarely IRL — digital dating coaches help you create a more attractive online profile, decipher your date’s cryptic text message and boost your confidence after an unsuccessful Tinder fling.

These are not substitutes for a licensed therapist, but they’re convenient. “We strive for instant gratification,” said Liron Shapira, 30, the co-founder of a chat-based Silicon Valley start-up called Relationship Hero. “We give 24-7 service. If you want advice at 4 a.m., you can get it.”

Online dating coaches have been around practically since online dating began, but their focus has shifted. In 2009, when Laurie Davis Edwards started a company called eFlirt Expert, her most popular offering was a dating “concierge” who would write client profiles, suggest potential matches and even respond to messages for the client, like an online Cyrano de Bergerac.

But Ms. Davis Edwards, 36, who now also runs a group video chat session called Abundant Love, said she came to realize “that women didn’t want us to do it for them but with them. They wanted to feel empowered in their dating lives. They wanted to learn.”

She offers the Abundant Love seminars through her new company, the Worthy One, which strives to help single women find confidence and optimism in their dating lives. (Her husband runs a similar program for men called Fearless Dating.)

“It’s like virtual brunch,” said Kelley Joyce, 45, a divorced entrepreneur in Manhattan who tried the eight-week program last fall, using it to analyze, for example, a prospect who was reluctant to schedule weekend dates. “I threw out all my crap to the group, and they were really good about helping me sort out the real issue: ‘He’s not making you a priority.’ They helped me pursue a conversation with him that wasn’t an emotional summit.”

Match.com has also entered the confidence-boosting game with webinars like “The Art of Speaking Your Mind.” Tripp Kramer, 32, whose YouTube channel “Tripp Advice: Dating Advice for Shy Guys,” has over half a million subscribers, runs a three-month Skype-based coaching program, including six one-on-one calls, weekly webinars and unlimited email questions. Blake Jamieson, 33, author of the book “TinderHacks,” offers a Tinder profile “audit” for men who may need help “getting an up-at-bat.”

The price and scope of these services vary widely. Mr. Jamieson charges $49 to $99 for his audits. Mr. Kramer charges $3,000 for his three-month program. Abundant Love, which recently expanded to three months, is $2,500. Icebrkr, a Boston-based start-up, charges $25 for the first two weeks of texts and $20 a month thereafter. Relationship Hero, which uses a proprietary chat platform, charges a dollar a minute.

Oliver, a 32-year-old software engineer, has spent roughly $200 on Relationship Hero, with coaching sessions that have lasted between three and 46 minutes. (He requested his last name be withheld, because he worried women might have an “uncharitable” opinion of a man who was paying a coach to analyze their conversations and texts. “They might think, ‘What a loser,’” he said.)

Last fall, Oliver contacted Relationship Hero after an especially bad Tinder date. He told his coach that the woman had seemed normal in her texts, but in person she turned out to be obsessed with status. He asked how to avoid meeting women like this in the future, and if he did end up on another bad date, how to leave early without seeming rude.

“Oh boy. lol,” the coach wrote. “so would you say you are often drawn to women by their looks first? Because you will have to dive a bit deeper … you know what Im sarying?”

At the end of the chat, the coach suggested that Oliver write down his expectations before his next date and then compare them with his postdate notes. “Good advice but also thanks for listening,” Oliver wrote. The coach signed off with a smiley face.

Oliver doesn’t consider his coach’s typos or colloquialisms unprofessional. “It’s just a conversation,” he said. “Not a formal document.” He found the coach clear and helpful. “You just want someone to hear you,” he said. “It’s like a two-minute therapy session.”

Relationship Hero, which has 20 coaches and has raised $620,000 in funding, emphasizes it provides “tactical relationship advice,” not therapy. “We won’t tell you to search your emotions, but give you advice that we think is most proven to get results in the situation,” Mr. Shapira said. Though some coaches are psychologists, the company’s co-founder Lior Gotesman, who is also a lead coach, says he often rejects candidates with graduate degrees, “because they’re not as much in tune with their intuition.”

But neither intuition nor expertise can solve every problem. Hunt Ethridge, another lead coach, says clients frequently want help winning back their exes. “Should that not work out, we’ll help set you up for the next thing,” he said. “We can’t do magic.”

Kristen, 50, a divorced mother who works in the real estate industry in Boston, said she doesn’t have such lofty expectations of her digital coach. (She also asked that her last name not be used.) “It’s an as-needed approach when I connect with someone, and I’m not feeling inspired or creative about how to reach out,” she said. She works with Kevin Murray, 35, the founder of Icebrkr, who has a master’s degree in communication and information studies from Rutgers and wrote his thesis about how people present themselves on internet dating platforms.

Recently, when a Bumble match wrote that he loved steamers and white wine, Mr. Murray suggested she ask the man to describe the perfect setting for this meal. Kirsten did so, and said the man replied, “On a sleek jet at 50,000 miles.”

She was not impressed. “I was like, ‘Ew,’” she said. “That sounds like a horrible place to have steamers. And also, he’s trying to make me think that he’s rich.”

Mr. Murray persuaded her to give Jet Man a chance. “The air between us wasn’t crackling,” she told him after a four-hour first date, which she gave a grade of B-. “But we had a nice time.”

After a few more exchanges with Mr. Murray, Kristen reached a verdict: She would see Jet Man again. “Kevin is my online dating Sherpa,” she said. Up to a point. “He’s constantly reminding me that I can reach out to him on a date,” she said. “But I can carry on a conversation in person.”

A half-century has passed since President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned Americans by announcing, in a televised address on March 31, 1968, that he was drastically reducing the bombing of North Vietnam, appealing to the Hanoi government for negotiations and, most incredible of all, withdrawing from the presidential election that fall. One imagines the stupefied reaction in living rooms all across the country: “Did he just say what I think he said?”

Johnson did what modern American presidents are never supposed to do: refrain from seeking re-election. (Since World War II, only Harry Truman in 1952 has done likewise.) He feared that his health could not withstand four more years, but what really worried him was the Vietnam War and the divisions it had created. The war was not just a threat to his personal legacy; it was a threat to the very foundations of the liberal political order that he cherished so deeply and that had built so many middle-class American dreams.

His viewers didn’t know it, but Johnson had always suspected this moment would come. From his earliest days in office, he repeatedly told his wife, Lady Bird, and aides that he felt trapped on Vietnam, that he would be crucified for whatever he did, that the conflict in far-off Southeast Asia would ultimately be his downfall.

Already in May 1964, a year before he committed the country to large-scale war, Johnson said to his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy: “I don’t think it’s worth fighting for and I don’t think we can get out. It’s just the biggest damned mess.” A year later, shortly before the first American ground forces set foot in Vietnam, Johnson told Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee: “There ain’t no daylight in Vietnam. There’s not a bit.”

Publicly, Johnson projected optimism. But the truth is that he was always a bleak skeptic on Vietnam — skeptical that it could be won, even with American air power and ground troops, especially in view of the weaknesses of the South Vietnamese military and government, and skeptical that the outcome truly mattered to American and Western security.

This attitude was reinforced by the opinions of people he valued. The Senate Democratic leadership on foreign policy — J. William Fulbright, Russell and Mike Mansfield, the majority leader — privately warned him in 1964 and ’65 against Americanizing the war. Allied leaders abroad did the same, as did prominent voices in the press.

His own vice president, Hubert H. Humphrey, a savvy politician who needed no reminder of the risks of “losing” a nation to Communism, insisted, in a memo in mid-February 1965, that the risks of escalation were far greater.

“If we find ourselves leading from frustration to escalation and end up short of a war with China but embroiled deeper in fighting in Vietnam over the next few months,” Humphrey warned, “political opposition will steadily mount,” because Americans had not been persuaded that a major war on behalf of an ineffectual Saigon government was justified.

At the same time, no senior military leader in 1965 offered the White House even a chance of rapid victory in Vietnam. Five years, 500,000 troops, was the general estimate Johnson heard. Where would that put the president in early 1968, as his campaign for re-election began in earnest? Right where he found himself as he sat down to deliver his announcement on March 31: in a protracted war with no end in sight.

So why did he go in? Part of the answer, surely, is that escalation, if done quietly, gradually and without putting the nation on full war footing, offered Johnson the path of least immediate resistance (always a tempting option for a policymaker), especially in domestic political terms. Given his repeated public affirmations of Vietnam’s importance to American security, it made sense that he would remain steadfast, in the hope that the new military measures would succeed, lest he face accusations of backing down, of going soft.

More than that, Johnson made the leap because for him, “retreat” from the struggle was inconceivable. He personalized the war, saw attacks on the policy as attacks on himself, and failed to see that his landslide victory in 1964 and the international and domestic context in early 1965 gave him considerable freedom of action — a point Humphrey cogently underscored in his February memo.

From Day 1 to the end, Johnson was a hawk on Vietnam, which proves again that doubting warriors can be committed warriors. He always framed his options in such a way that standing firm appeared the only reasonable choice — it was full retreat, bomb the hell out of China, or stay the course. Never did he fully explore imaginative ways out of the conflict; for him, extrication without victory signified humiliation and defeat.

This didn’t mean Johnson rejected all talk of negotiations. After mid-1965 he pressed Under Secretary of State George Ball for new diplomatic ideas — although, as Ball later remarked, “he really meant merely new channels and procedures.”

When negotiations with North Vietnam at last began in Paris in May 1968, Johnson took a firm line. He also continued the bombing and indeed increased it below the 19th Parallel and in Laos. In the 10 months from March 1 to Dec. 31, 1968, the Pentagon dropped a greater tonnage of bombs on Indochina than had been expended in the three years prior. This expanded bombing, Daniel Ellsberg hauntingly concludes in his memoir of the war, was “obediently carried out” by men from Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford “on down to flight crews, who believed it served no national purpose whatever.”

Humphrey won the Democratic nomination in 1968, yet Johnson was reluctant to throw his full support behind him, privately accusing the vice president of being cowardly and disloyal whenever he expressed a desire to move policy even modestly in a dovish direction. Some part of Johnson preferred to see Richard Nixon as his successor, expecting, with reason, that the Republican would be more resolute than Humphrey in pursuing the war.

And so it ended, the saga of Lyndon Johnson’s presidency, its denouement having been anticipated by him at the beginning. He was a man who dreamed big dreams for the Great Society, who hoped that his prodigious efforts on civil rights, voting rights, education and Medicare would earn him a place alongside Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt — and who anticipated from the start that Vietnam would ruin it all.

It bears all the markings of tragedy, but of a certain kind, more Shakespearean than Greek, more Macbeth than Agamemnon. Whereas for the Greek playwrights the universe tends to be deterministic, the hero at the mercy of forces beyond his control, for Shakespeare the tragedy lies in the very choices the protagonist makes. His Macbeth is no mere victim; he contributes to his own demise. The same must be said of Lyndon Johnson.

For those seeking symbols there is, finally, this: On Jan. 22, 1973, Johnson died at his Texas ranch, two days after hearing Nixon, in his second inaugural address, hint at cuts to the Great Society and remind Americans how far they had come from that bleak time in 1968, when they faced “the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home.” The next day, Nixon announced a deal had been reached in Paris to end the war and “bring peace with honor.”

Philip Kerr, a Scottish-born writer whose popular novels feature a Nazi-era detective named Bernie Gunther, whose hard-boiled style made him literary kin to Philip Marlowe, Raymond Chandler’s classic private eye, died on Friday in London. He was 62.

The cause was bladder cancer, according to his publisher, G. P. Putnam’s Sons.

Through 13 novels, including “Greeks Bearing Gifts,” which will be published next week, Mr. Kerr drew Gunther as a savvy and cynical Berlin criminal police investigator who hates Hitler and quits his job when the Nazis take over. He becomes a private detective, but is then pressed into gumshoe jobs for the propaganda minister Joseph Goebbels and Reinhard Heydrich, a principal architect of the Final Solution.

Gunther is “one of crime fiction’s most satisfying and unlikely survivors: the good cop in the belly of the beast,” Jane Kramer, The New Yorker’s longtime European correspondent, wrote last year.

Some of the novels bring Gunther into postwar intrigues in Argentina, Cuba, France, Greece and other countries.

Mr. Kerr wrote fantasy novels for children (the “Children of the Lamp” series, under the name P. B. Kerr), a mystery novel involving Sir Isaac Newton, and thrillers set in the world of soccer. But he was most successful at the Gunther series, which began with “March Violets” in 1989.

After two follow-ups, Mr. Kerr set Gunther aside for 15 years, taking an approach to his creation far different from that of Sue Grafton, who cast her private detective, Kinsey Millhone, in 25 alphabet-spanning novels that began in 1982 and ended with her finale, “Y Is for Yesterday” (2017), which was published four months before her death.

Mr. Kerr recalled that he had other interests and did not want to be typecast as a Gunther-only writer.

“I sort of packed it in after three because I thought three’s a nice number,” he told the radio host Leonard Lopate of WNYC in 2015. “I hadn’t signed up to do the same thing for the rest of my life.”

But as he went on tour to promote his non-Gunther books in the intervening years, fans asked him when he would return to his sardonic, Goethe-quoting detective.

“I’d better write another so people would stop asking,” he told Mr. Lopate.

They kept coming with regularity. In 2006, Mr. Kerr resurrected Gunther in “The One From the Other,” a postwar story about the search for a Nazi war criminal. At his death he left behind the manuscript for another Gunther novel, “Metropolis,” which explores the character’s life during the Weimar Republic.

“It’s Bernie at the start,” Marian Wood, Mr. Kerr’s longtime editor, said of the book in a telephone interview. “It’s his origin story.”

Ms. Wood, vice president and publisher of Marian Wood Books, an imprint of Putnam Books, added: “He’s fought in World War I, he’s joined the police force, he was a beat cop brought into vice, and then he was brought into the Berlin criminal murder squad.”

“Metropolis” will be published later this year or next year, she said.

When Deputy Führer Rudolf Hess entered a Berlin hotel in “If the Dead Rise Not” (2009), Mr. Kerr’s sharp eye for detail revealed itself in Gunther’s vivid narration.

“He was medium in height; slim with dark, wavy hair; a Transylvania brow; werewolf eyes, and a razor-thin mouth,” Mr. Kerr wrote, adding, “With his eager air, he reminded me of an Alsatian dog let off the leash by his Austrian master to lick the hand of the man from the American Olympic Committee. As it happened there was a hand that I had to go and lick myself. A hand that belonged to a man in the Gestapo.”

Philip Ballantyne Kerr was born in Edinburgh on Feb. 22, 1956. His father, William, was an engineer, and his mother, the former Ann Brodie, was a secretary. He began writing as a youngster and was intrigued by books that his religious parents kept from him in a locked closet. At 11 or 12, while his parents were out, he found the key and discovered D. H. Lawrence’s “Lady Chatterley’s Lover,” which for a time was widely banned for obscenity.

Inspired to create a racy story of his own, the young Mr. Kerr wrote “The Duchess and the Daisies” and rented the manuscript to schoolmates. But when his father learned about “Daisies” he punished Philip by forcing him to read it to his mother.

“She fled the room after a couple of sentences, thank God,” Mr. Kerr told the British newspaper The Telegraph in 2012, “but it gave me quite an insight into the power of words.”

His family moved to the Midlands in England when he was a teenager — he left Scotland with little sentimentality — and graduated from Birmingham University with a bachelor’s degree in law; he went on to receive a master’s in jurisprudence there. But rather than pursue a legal career, he worked as an advertising copywriter at the Saatchi & Saatchi agency in London.

Mr. Kerr traveled to Berlin regularly, curious about the influence of German Romanticism on the country’s legal philosophy. Initially, he wanted to write about the social and philosophical underpinnings of Nazism. Instead, he started writing the Gunther novels.

He would, in time, wonder what Mr. Chandler would have done with Marlowe — the indelible star of novels like “The Big Sleep” and “Farewell, My Lovely” — if his fictional locale had been Berlin, not Los Angeles.

“What kind of Marlowe would we have had?” Mr. Kerr said in an interview in 2011 with The Morning News, a webzine. “It tickled me a little bit to try and inhabit that same noir period.”

By placing the sardonic Gunther in Hitler’s Germany, Mr. Kerr found fertile turf for years of complex storytelling. Nazis, he said, were far worse than any “dodgy” district attorney or “corrupt” mayor Marlowe had encountered.

Mr. Kerr is survived by his wife, Jane Thynne, who is also a novelist; a daughter, Naomi Kerr; two sons, William and Charlie; and a sister, Caroline Kerr.

In a review of “The Lady from Zagreb” (2009), Patrick Anderson of The Washington Post praised the Gunther novels for offering real evil, not the make-believe villains of most detective fiction.

“Countless histories of the Third Reich exist,” Mr. Anderson wrote, “but there can be few more palatable ways than these books to take a look at its horrors, its leaders and the mood in Germany before, during and after the war.”

A half-century has passed since President Lyndon B. Johnson stunned Americans by announcing, in a televised address on March 31, 1968, that he was drastically reducing the bombing of North Vietnam, appealing to the Hanoi government for negotiations and, most incredible of all, withdrawing from the presidential election that fall. One imagines the stupefied reaction in living rooms all across the country: “Did he just say what I think he said?”

Johnson did what modern American presidents are never supposed to do: refrain from seeking re-election. (Since World War II, only Harry Truman in 1952 has done likewise.) He feared that his health could not withstand four more years, but what really worried him was the Vietnam War and the divisions it had created. The war was not just a threat to his personal legacy; it was a threat to the very foundations of the liberal political order that he cherished so deeply and that had built so many middle-class American dreams.

His viewers didn’t know it, but Johnson had always suspected this moment would come. From his earliest days in office, he repeatedly told his wife, Lady Bird, and aides that he felt trapped on Vietnam, that he would be crucified for whatever he did, that the conflict in far-off Southeast Asia would ultimately be his downfall.

Already in May 1964, a year before he committed the country to large-scale war, Johnson said to his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy: “I don’t think it’s worth fighting for and I don’t think we can get out. It’s just the biggest damned mess.” A year later, shortly before the first American ground forces set foot in Vietnam, Johnson told Senator Richard Russell of Georgia, the chairman of the Armed Services Committee: “There ain’t no daylight in Vietnam. There’s not a bit.”

Publicly, Johnson projected optimism. But the truth is that he was always a bleak skeptic on Vietnam — skeptical that it could be won, even with American air power and ground troops, especially in view of the weaknesses of the South Vietnamese military and government, and skeptical that the outcome truly mattered to American and Western security.

This attitude was reinforced by the opinions of people he valued. The Senate Democratic leadership on foreign policy — J. William Fulbright, Russell and Mike Mansfield, the majority leader — privately warned him in 1964 and ’65 against Americanizing the war. Allied leaders abroad did the same, as did prominent voices in the press.

His own vice president, Hubert H. Humphrey, a savvy politician who needed no reminder of the risks of “losing” a nation to Communism, insisted, in a memo in mid-February 1965, that the risks of escalation were far greater.

“If we find ourselves leading from frustration to escalation and end up short of a war with China but embroiled deeper in fighting in Vietnam over the next few months,” Humphrey warned, “political opposition will steadily mount,” because Americans had not been persuaded that a major war on behalf of an ineffectual Saigon government was justified.

At the same time, no senior military leader in 1965 offered the White House even a chance of rapid victory in Vietnam. Five years, 500,000 troops, was the general estimate Johnson heard. Where would that put the president in early 1968, as his campaign for re-election began in earnest? Right where he found himself as he sat down to deliver his announcement on March 31: in a protracted war with no end in sight.

So why did he go in? Part of the answer, surely, is that escalation, if done quietly, gradually and without putting the nation on full war footing, offered Johnson the path of least immediate resistance (always a tempting option for a policymaker), especially in domestic political terms. Given his repeated public affirmations of Vietnam’s importance to American security, it made sense that he would remain steadfast, in the hope that the new military measures would succeed, lest he face accusations of backing down, of going soft.

More than that, Johnson made the leap because for him, “retreat” from the struggle was inconceivable. He personalized the war, saw attacks on the policy as attacks on himself, and failed to see that his landslide victory in 1964 and the international and domestic context in early 1965 gave him considerable freedom of action — a point Humphrey cogently underscored in his February memo.

From Day 1 to the end, Johnson was a hawk on Vietnam, which proves again that doubting warriors can be committed warriors. He always framed his options in such a way that standing firm appeared the only reasonable choice — it was full retreat, bomb the hell out of China, or stay the course. Never did he fully explore imaginative ways out of the conflict; for him, extrication without victory signified humiliation and defeat.

This didn’t mean Johnson rejected all talk of negotiations. After mid-1965 he pressed Under Secretary of State George Ball for new diplomatic ideas — although, as Ball later remarked, “he really meant merely new channels and procedures.”

When negotiations with North Vietnam at last began in Paris in May 1968, Johnson took a firm line. He also continued the bombing and indeed increased it below the 19th Parallel and in Laos. In the 10 months from March 1 to Dec. 31, 1968, the Pentagon dropped a greater tonnage of bombs on Indochina than had been expended in the three years prior. This expanded bombing, Daniel Ellsberg hauntingly concludes in his memoir of the war, was “obediently carried out” by men from Secretary of Defense Clark Clifford “on down to flight crews, who believed it served no national purpose whatever.”

Humphrey won the Democratic nomination in 1968, yet Johnson was reluctant to throw his full support behind him, privately accusing the vice president of being cowardly and disloyal whenever he expressed a desire to move policy even modestly in a dovish direction. Some part of Johnson preferred to see Richard Nixon as his successor, expecting, with reason, that the Republican would be more resolute than Humphrey in pursuing the war.

And so it ended, the saga of Lyndon Johnson’s presidency, its denouement having been anticipated by him at the beginning. He was a man who dreamed big dreams for the Great Society, who hoped that his prodigious efforts on civil rights, voting rights, education and Medicare would earn him a place alongside Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt — and who anticipated from the start that Vietnam would ruin it all.

It bears all the markings of tragedy, but of a certain kind, more Shakespearean than Greek, more Macbeth than Agamemnon. Whereas for the Greek playwrights the universe tends to be deterministic, the hero at the mercy of forces beyond his control, for Shakespeare the tragedy lies in the very choices the protagonist makes. His Macbeth is no mere victim; he contributes to his own demise. The same must be said of Lyndon Johnson.

For those seeking symbols there is, finally, this: On Jan. 22, 1973, Johnson died at his Texas ranch, two days after hearing Nixon, in his second inaugural address, hint at cuts to the Great Society and remind Americans how far they had come from that bleak time in 1968, when they faced “the prospect of seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home.” The next day, Nixon announced a deal had been reached in Paris to end the war and “bring peace with honor.”

ATLANTA — Drew Speraw, a Kansas State assistant coach, found himself in an unenviable position near the end of the Wildcats’ tight win over the University of Maryland, Baltimore County, last Sunday: He had to physically grab his boss.

Bruce Weber, Kansas State’s head coach, is a defense-first guy. In the second half, while his team was on defense against U.M.B.C., the action was on the other end of the court from the Kansas State bench. As Weber yelled instructions and imprecations to his players over the noise of the crowd, he inched closer and closer to midcourt like a salmon traveling upstream in spurts and, like plenty of other coaches, even wandered onto the court itself sometimes.

Those are no-nos in college basketball, grounds for a technical foul, which is a terrible thing during a close game. Just ask Kentucky Coach John Calipari, who got whistled for drifting beyond the coach’s box in his team’s loss to Kansas State Thursday night.

In Kansas State’s game last weekend, Weber had already been warned. Fortunately, Speraw is used to it, and he knows the responsibility that goes with his position by Weber on the bench.

“I’m the closest one,” Speraw said after Sunday’s game in Charlotte, N.C.

On Wednesday, Weber said that while he is a frequent migrant down the sideline, one boundary is clear.

“My thing is, if you yell at the refs, you should get a technical,” he said.

But he defended his intention — leading his team to victory — and actions — shouting, pacing, pushing the limits of the coach’s box.

“If we’re coaching our guys,” he said, “that’s what we’re paid to do.”

The N.C.A.A. doesn’t necessarily disagree. This is the first season of an expanded coach’s box, which is the area the head coach may patrol during play. Vigorous sideline generals received an extra 10 feet this season; they may now roam from the baseline all the way to a mark 38 feet away. That’s a midrange jump shot from midcourt, which is 47 feet from the baseline.

“I have had officials tell me that it was expanded for me,” Weber said.

College basketball coaches are easy subjects for ridicule. N.B.A. fans scoff at their hyperactivity and point to professional coaches’ comparatively calm mien, even though N.B.A. coaches may stray as much as 43 feet from the baseline. Casual observers wonder why these blustering, nattily dressed bombasts can’t stay cool.

The college coaches say they deserve sympathy. Their charges are younger than most players in the N.B.A. Their teams can feel especially far away while on defense, seeking crucial late-game stops out of vocal range for even the loudest coach. Most coaches are former players with decades of experience who now watch mostly helplessly as post-adolescents try to implement months of training in a few essential seconds. Their antics also make for great TV.

Yet they have to stay inside an invisible box during games or risk a penalty that could tangibly hurt their team. The correct call for a coach’s box violation after a warning is a Class B technical foul, giving the other team one free throw and the ball, inbounded where it was when the foul was called.

“I have a young team, and sometimes they don’t talk,” Alabama Coach Avery Johnson said last week between first- and second-round games. “You can hear it in my voice. I’ve got to talk for them. I got warned yesterday, and, probably, going to get warned tomorrow.”

Despite plenty of yelling and straying, Johnson and Alabama lost to Duke on Sunday night.

In a world where referees “T-up” coaches for far more subjectively determined violations, there is an argument that the coach’s box is extraneous, even condescending. Anecdotally, there appear to be few T’s actually called (the N.C.A.A. said it did not keep the statistic). Kansas Coach Bill Self complained that he had been whistled once this year “for sticking my toe two inches outside the box.”

“We represent universities,” South Carolina Coach Frank Martin said in a phone interview. “We’re grown men. We’re employed. We get treated like we’re immature. We’ve got to be in this small little confined area. We’re not going to go to the other bench and instigate something.”

This understanding was partly why the box was expanded, according to Art Hyland, secretary-rules editor of the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball rules committee. It is also why referees are instructed to first give the bench a warning.

“People felt empathy that the coaches really needed a little more room in order to do their job correctly,” Hyland said.

An extra 10 feet turns out to be a lot, Self said Thursday in Omaha before the Jayhawks’ round of 16 game. He thought it was a “pretty insignificant change” when it was announced last June, but now that it has been in place for a season, he said, “It’s been a great rule.”

“You feel like you can actually have a little bit more communication on the other end of the floor,” he said.

On Wednesday, before Thursday night’s violation, Calipari blamed the tight strictures of the old box for one of the most infamous coach’s box technical fouls in the college game.

In 1992, Calipari’s Massachusetts team was playing Kentucky in the round of 16 at the Spectrum in Philadelphia. The Minutemen had made up most of a double-digit deficit late in the second half when a referee called a technical foul on Calipari for a coach’s box violation. The referee “was 50 feet away from the UMass bench when he called it,” The Baltimore Sun reported. The call swung the momentum back the Wildcats’ way, and they won. (They lost the next game to Duke on Christian Laettner’s famous buzzer-beater.)

“At the Spectrum where they had all those lines,” Calipari said. “I’m standing there and the guy calls a T from 90 feet away. ‘You’re out of the box.’ And I really wasn’t out of the box, but it looked like it.”

Calipari had no such defense or excuse Thursday night.

In practice, there is frequently a live-and-let-live dynamic between referees and hyperactive coaches. Warnings are issued; actual fouls, less so.

Ed Hightower, a retired referee, said officials often find that assistant coaches are better interlocutors for conveying the warnings. Speraw, Weber’s assistant, said that the referees had spoken to the staff at halftime of the U.M.B.C. game.

When warning coaches that they were in danger of violating this rule, Hightower said he would often say, “You don’t want to make me do something I don’t want to do.”

“Ninety percent of the time, I would say, the coaches are just so caught up in the moment, coaching their kids,” Hightower said. “It’s an emotional sport.”

ATLANTA —  As Georgia's governor, Zell Miller successfully championed selling lottery tickets to fund scholarships in a Bible belt state and lost a fight to change the Confederate-themed state flag. As a U.S. senator, he enraged fellow Democrats with a primetime convention speech endorsing the re-election of President George W. Bush.

Time and again, Miller proved himself a stubbornly independent Southern Democrat during a political career that spanned four decades. Miller died Friday at age 86 in the same mountain home where he was raised by a widowed mother who built their house with rocks pulled from a stream.

"He had an independent streak that was governed by what he thought was right," said U.S. Sen. Johnny Isakson, a Georgia Republican who befriended Miller after a bitter political rivalry. "We need more people like him."

Miller served as Georgia's governor from 1991 to 1999. He came out of retirement in 2000 at age 68 to fill the final four years of a U.S. Senate term. Miller had retreated from public view in the past year after his family revealed he had been diagnosed with Parkinson's disease. He died at his home in Young Harris surrounded by three generations of family, grandson Bryan Miller said.

"We were able to spend the last 24 hours of his life with him and I can tell you that he died peacefully, comfortably surrounded by his family," Bryan Miller said.

Funeral arrangements would be announced later, the younger Miller said.

"Georgia has lost a favorite son and a true statesman, and I've lost a dear friend," Republican Gov. Nathan Deal said. "Zell's legacy is unequaled and his accomplishments in public service are innumerable. Without question, our state and our people are better off because of him."

Bush sent condolences from Texas, calling Miller "an example of service before self, country before party, principle before poll."

Miller drew praise from another former president, fellow Georgian Jimmy Carter, who served alongside Miller as a state senator in the 1960s.

"Growing up in the hills of north Georgia gave Zell a straight-talking approach to politics that left no one in doubt of his views on any subject," the 93-year-old former president said, adding that Miller was "a good friend."

Both men got their political starts as conservative Democrats in the civil rights era. They eventually climbed to higher office — Carter became governor two decades before Miller — by putting together coalitions of white and black voters.

Miller was considered one of the state's most successful and popular modern chief executives, compiling a progressive record in education and tax policy.

His signature accomplishment was the HOPE scholarship, which paid college tuition for Georgia students maintaining a "B'' average and was funded by establishing a state lottery. Religious conservatives fought the effort, equating the lottery with gambling, but Miller won approval from the legislature and Georgia voters.

Today the Georgia Lottery says the scholarship has provided money to 1.8 million Georgia students. Forty-four states have some kind of lottery, including all Georgia's Southern neighbors except Alabama and Mississippi, where religious conservatives have successfully blocked several attempts. Miller was near the vanguard of the idea in the South, where only Florida and Louisiana beat Georgia to the lottery game.

Near the end of Miller's second term, South Carolina Democrat Jim Hodges and Alabama Democrat Don Siegelman won 1998 races for governor primarily on education lottery proposals like Miller's, though Alabama voters ultimately rejected the idea.

"The first visit that I made after being elected governor was to visit him," said Hodges, who at age 41 viewed Miller as a mentor. "He was tough as nails."

Miller also successfully pressed the Legislature to remove the sales tax from food. He had served a record 16 years as lieutenant governor before that.

After heading to Washington in 2000, Miller hammered his own party for veering from mainstream values. He never changed parties, though many Democrats clamored for him to do so after he delivered a stem-winder of a keynote speech for then-President George W. Bush at the 2004 Republican National Convention.

Calling him a man with "a spine of tempered steel," Miller hailed Bush as "the man I trust to protect my most precious possession: my family."

Twelve years earlier, Miller addressed a different convention in the same New York hall, where he told national Democrats Bill Clinton was the man America needed. "We can't all be born rich and handsome and lucky, and that's why we have a Democratic Party," Miller said.

It was precisely the kind of unpredictable behavior that earned the ex-Marine the nickname "Zig-Zag Zell." The moniker initially infuriated him but in later life he acknowledged there was some truth to it.

"I would be suspect of any politician who doesn't change their mind on some issues," he once said.

But of his battle with fellow Democrats, detailed in his carping book, "A National Party No More," a national best-seller, Miller insisted it was the party that had changed — not him.

His political career wasn't without regrets. Miller failed in 1964 to unseat a popular north Georgia congressman and later said he was ashamed of that race. At the time he voiced opposition to the Civil Rights Act and denounced President Lyndon Johnson as "a Southerner who has sold his birthright for a mess of dark pottage."

He wrote later, "I only hope that the totality of my forty-year record since then is proof that they were the words of someone who at that time was a political weakling, but not a racist."

Miller worked a succession of state political jobs before winning the governorship in 1990 at age 58, easily defeating former Atlanta Mayor and ex-UN Ambassador Andrew Young in a Democratic runoff and then defeating Johnny Isakson, a Republican who would succeed him 15 years later in the Senate.

Despite their political rivalry, Miller during his second term as governor appointed Isakson in 1996 to become chairman of the state Board of Education. Miller had just fired the previous board for political infighting with Georgia's new Republican school superintendent.

"I thought that must be a trick," Isakson recalled. "I couldn't think why the guy I ran against for governor would want to appoint me."

The rousing success of Georgia's lottery for education program probably saved Miller from defeat in 1994 when he sought re-election. He had ignited a firestorm in 1993 with an unsuccessful attempt to remove the fighting banner of the Confederacy from the state flag.

With Atlanta due to host the summer Olympics in 1996, the business community wanted Georgia to remove a symbol associated with segregation. But many whites, and most legislators, opposed the idea.

In a stirring address, Miller told lawmakers it was time to jettison the old Confederate insignia added to the flag in 1956 "to identify Georgia with the dark side of the Confederacy — the desire to deprive some Americans of the equal rights that are the birthright of all."

But he couldn't muster the votes and ultimately abandoned the effort.

When Miller left office in January 1999, his public life looked at an end. Then Republican Sen. Paul Coverdell died in July 2000. Miller was appointed to replace him.

But he never switched parties.

"I was born a Democrat. It's not simply a party affiliation," he once wrote. "It's more like a birthmark for me and many of my fellow mountaineers ... I would no more think of changing parties than I would think of changing my name."

___

Bynum reported from Savannah, Georgia.

John Legend hasn’t done musical theater since high school. But when NBC called to ask if he might be interested in playing the title role in a live broadcast of “Jesus Christ Superstar,” he said, “I had a hard time turning down the role of Jesus Christ.”

Now Mr. Legend, best known as an R&B singer and songwriter, is channeling his inner rocker as he leads a starry cast of the latest televised musical.

“Jesus Christ Superstar,” with songs by a young Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice, is a rock musical about the week that ends with Jesus’s crucifixion. Controversial when it opened on Broadway in 1971 — some Christians found either the style or substance of the storytelling blasphemous, and some Jews were concerned about the portrayal of Jewish leaders — it has since become a staple of the musical theater canon.

The broadcast will air Sunday (that’s Easter) on NBC, starting at 8 p.m. Eastern Time. It is being billed as a live concert, rather than a fully staged musical, and it will be performed inside a 19th-century National Guard armory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, before a live audience of 1,300.

[Read our review of “Jesus Christ Superstar.”]

The production, directed by David Leveaux, is big — 500 crew members, 33 musicians and 44 cast members, including the pop singer-songwriter Sara Bareilles as Mary Magdalene, the hard-rock performer Alice Cooper as King Herod and the stage actor Brandon Victor Dixon as Judas, as well as Mr. Legend as Jesus. The four lead performers talked about their relationships to faith, musical theater and “Superstar” in separate interviews. These are edited excerpts from the conversations.

On religion I grew up in a Pentecostal Christian family, pretty fundamentalist. My grandfather was my pastor growing up. My dad is a pastor himself and played drums in the church choir, my mother was a choir director, and my grandmother was the church organist. My dad would even play Jesus in some of our passion plays in church. I’m not religious now, I would say, but there’s no way that you are raised in that environment, and also grow up singing that music, without it having an impact on your life.

On musicals My first contact with Andrew Lloyd Webber was in a show choir, “Glee”-style, where we would sing show tunes. And I was in a few actual theater productions — “Big River,” “Fiddler on the Roof,” and “You’re a Good Man, Charlie Brown” — when I was in high school. The hardest part now was just learning all the material — I’m so used to performing songs that I wrote for myself.

On Jesus Preparing for this particular role is not just about understanding historical Jesus. A lot of it goes back to thinking about love, and what that means — love for the people who are close to you, but also for mankind, and what that means when it comes to thinking about the sacrifice that he was willing to make.

On ‘Superstar’ The show is an interesting conceit — the idea of thinking about the real human emotions that someone that a lot of people see as a deity may have felt; the idea that he might have felt doubt and fear and resentment toward his father; the idea that he was betrayed by his friends. And, in this show, Andrew and Tim suggest that Judas may have had a point — Judas may have had really good reasons for questioning Jesus’s m.o.

On religion I grew up in the Episcopal Church, went to private school in that church, went to chapel every day. It was a constant through my adolescence. Then we started to shift, to the Unitarian church. Now, spirituality plays a role in my life, but not religion. For me religion is a political construct, and spirituality is a community construct, and there’s a real difference.

On musicals I work in musical theater because people keep writing quality stories in the genre, and I’m really all about investing in a piece that says something about our current time, that is a reflection on who we are today.

On Judas What I’ve learned is that Judas is far less culpable of the things that he is accused of than people assume. Judas feels acutely a perversion of the message, and he also feels the danger of the message getting out of control — of dedication and love and unity and community turning into fanaticism and zealotry.

On ‘Superstar’ I had never seen the show, had never heard the soundtrack — I really had no clue until I got this job. I watched the movie up until Judas was dead — that probably says something about my own personal character — and then we were in rehearsal and I overheard the musical director saying something about ‘You know, after Judas comes back’ — and I was like, ‘What? Judas comes back?’ And I went home and I finished the movie and found out Judas comes back and sings the best song in the entire show. I was floored.

On religion I’m definitely someone who has faith and a belief in God and the workings of the universe at large, but I don’t subscribe to a particular doctrine. I grew up Catholic, and I went to Catholic school, so the story of Jesus and the crucifixion are very near and dear to my heart. I still go to Catholic Mass with my parents when I go home. The ritual and the familiarity and the comfort of our church community growing up is something I look back on really fondly now, even though I don’t go to church any more.

On musicals  It’s this medium that exists somewhere between feet-on-the-ground and lifting off. It’s sort of elevated reality, where you get to tell really beautiful stories, but everything is slightly surreal, and I really love what unlocks emotionally for people.

On Mary Magdalene She’s actually a very powerful figure, and she is really motivated by her love for Jesus and his message. Historically, she was definitely a disciple and a believer and a champion of his message. She’s got laser focus on her support of Jesus, in my interpretation, and that’s how I’m coming to it, with a pure sense of the ultimate kind of love for someone.

On ‘Superstar’ I rented the film — I was probably 12 or 13 and I was really into a lot of Andrew Lloyd Webber’s musicals at the time, and I was listening to everything I could get my hands on. I remember just being really emotional about the music. What was so avant-garde and so revolutionary about Tim and Andrew’s approach was that they really emphasized the humanity of these figures that have become so mythologized for us over the years. For someone who grew up in the church, as intimate as your relationship to Jesus can be, it’s really interesting and nuanced to look at him as a human and to look at Mary as a human and Judas as a human.

On religion My dad was a pastor. My grandfather was an evangelist. And my wife’s father is a Baptist pastor. I was basically the prodigal child — I grew up in the church, went as far away as you could possibly go, and then came back. When I got sober, I started understanding — I had all the fame and the money and everything that went with it, but I started realizing what was important to me was my relationship with Jesus Christ, who I just absolutely torture in this show.

I study the Bible every morning. When I’m at home I have a Wednesday morning men’s Bible study. I pray before every show. I go to church every Sunday with my wife and kids. I don’t think I’ve ever been more happy in my life. People say, ‘Think of all you gave up to be a Christian.’ What did I give up? Dying of alcoholism? I’m not giving anything up. I’m giving it back, to him.

On musicals I am just fascinated by the musical. One of my Sirius stations is always Broadway. ‘A Chorus Line’ was one of the greatest ones. And ‘Guys and Dolls’ — my dad was a big fan of Damon Runyon.

When I was 16, we had a band called The Spiders, in Phoenix, and we got a call for a production of ‘Bye Bye Birdie’ — ‘Would you guys be the Birdies?’ So we got to be in this run, in real theater. That may have been where the whole Alice Cooper theatrics came from.

On Herod I think he’s going to be sort of an Elvis impersonator — I’m all in gold, and I’ve got a gold suit on that fits really good. The director wants this guy to be half rock star, half king. That’s how I want to play this. This Herod is a swirling mass of paranoia and ego. He starts out being very egocentric, but he’s getting angrier and angrier as it goes along, and pretty soon at the very end he’s right in Jesus’s face — he’s so tired of this guy.

On ‘Superstar’  There has never been a character in history that has ever had more written about him than Jesus Christ. There’s an underlying thing that everybody still wants to know who this guy was.

EAST LANSING, Mich. — The investigation began with the goal of uncovering how Michigan State University officials had failed to prevent Dr. Lawrence G. Nassar from assaulting hundreds of young women over decades. But the inquiry took a stunning turn on Tuesday when a university dean was accused not just of facilitating Dr. Nassar’s abuse, but of committing sexual misconduct himself.

Dr. William D. Strampel, who worked as Dr. Nassar’s boss at the College of Osteopathic Medicine, was accused by investigators of grabbing the buttocks of two female medical students. He suggested that one young woman leave school and become a “centerfold model,” investigators said. And he stored nude “selfies,” apparently of Michigan State students, on his work computer, court documents say, along with a video of Dr. Nassar performing “treatment” on a young patient.

“As dean of the college, Strampel used his office to harass, discriminate, demean, sexually proposition and sexually assault female students,” a detective from Michigan’s statewide police agency wrote in an affidavit.

The arrest of Dr. Strampel, who is 70 and was for 15 years the highest-ranking official at the osteopathic college, compounded the crisis facing Michigan State. It has seen its reputation devastated in recent months as scores of women recounted abuse by Dr. Nassar, a longtime university sports doctor. Women have described a corrupt culture at the university that diminished or ignored the complaints some of them made about Dr. Nassar as far back as the late 1990s. Michigan State’s president, Lou Anna K. Simon, left under pressure in January and trustees have faced calls to resign, even as the state’s criminal investigation into the university was expected to continue and additional charges were possible.

“This is another blow to the university,” Tom Leonard, the speaker of the Michigan House of Representatives, said of the charges against Dr. Strampel. “It’s an absolute disgrace.”

Dr. Strampel — who stepped down in December from his job as dean, where he made more than $383,000 annually, according to MLive, a local news outlet — was charged with misconduct of a public official, a felony, and three misdemeanors, including fourth-degree criminal sexual conduct and two counts of willful neglect of duty. Dr. Strampel was jailed on Monday, and appeared in court via video on Tuesday afternoon wearing a gray sweatshirt, his hands cuffed in front of him. A personal recognizance bond was set at $25,000, and Dr. Strampel was ordered not to contact current or former students, and not to leave the state.

John Dakmak, a lawyer for Dr. Strampel, said his client planned to fight the charges and denied all of the counts against him.

“My client denies that he ever engaged in any inappropriate touching of anyone, any student or otherwise,” Mr. Dakmak said. “He denies that there was any quid pro quo for sexual favors in exchange for any type of standing within the university or the medical school.”

The charges against Dr. Strampel come as prosecutors pursue a sprawling investigation of the university, which began after Dr. Nassar, a longtime physician for Michigan State and for U.S.A. Gymnastics, admitted sexually abusing young women and was sentenced to prison in hearings that drew international attention. Dozens of women, including Olympic gymnasts, described assaults committed under the guise of medical care. At least 265 people have said they were abused by Dr. Nassar.

Prosecutors said Dr. Strampel failed to take steps to protect patients from Dr. Nassar when allegations of abuse emerged. He neglected, the prosecutors said, to follow a set of protocols that would, for instance, have required Dr. Nassar to conduct exams only with other staff members present. “Despite his representation of his (and the college’s) intended response to the allegations against Nassar, Strampel did not actually enforce or monitor these protocols, nor did he alert other employees in the Sports Medicine Clinic about the existence of the protocols,” the charging documents said.

The police detective’s affidavit outlining the charges also described a series of disturbing interactions between Dr. Strampel and four female medical students, none of whom were named publicly. In several of the cases, the women said they had gone to meet with Dr. Strampel to discuss their academic work but that he had turned the conversation to other topics.

One woman who said she had been summoned to Dr. Strampel’s office after falling asleep in class said that he told her to “turn around in a circle twice so that he could observe her body,” and that he said that she was “never going to make it in the profession if she did not dress sexier.” When she was later called to a dinner honoring scholarship recipients at a club on Michigan State’s golf course, she said Dr. Strampel reached around and gripped her buttock as they posed for photos, according to the affidavit.

Another student who had failed a medical school test said she was required to meet with Dr. Strampel, who asked her what her “Plan B” was since “she could not cut it in medical school.” The student said Dr. Strampel told her he would do her a favor by letting her take the exam again, but that she would then be required to do anything for him. “Given the context,” the affidavit said, the woman “understood that she was being asked to do anything he wanted sexually in exchange for the favor.”

In an interview, Dr. Nicole Eastman, who graduated from the school in 2010 and who said that she was interviewed by investigators in the case, said that Dr. Strampel made inappropriate sexual remarks, beginning soon after she started school in 2006.

At one point, he told her, laughing and boasting, that it was easy to get women drunk, she said. Another time, she said, he grabbed her buttock at a crowded event, in full view of his wife, who was standing nearby.

“I just remember how humiliating it was,” Dr. Eastman said. “People knew about his behavior, and even if they weren’t inappropriately touched by him, they knew. And now we know that his behavior enabled Larry Nassar’s behavior.”

Dr. Eastman said she told a Michigan State employee while she was in school about Dr. Strampel’s behavior. The employee looked resigned, Dr. Eastman recalled.

“She said, ‘Everybody knows about his behavior and nothing ever changes,’” Dr. Eastman said. “It seemed like a defeated kind of tone. When I think back to that, it was like she felt powerless.”

The charging documents said Dr. Strampel also made graphic sexual comments, solicited nude photos from at least one student, and stored dozens of pornographic images and videos on a computer in his office, including many images that appeared to be of Michigan State students.

Rachael Denhollander, who said Dr. Nassar abused her, said Tuesday’s charges reflected a systemic failure at Michigan State.

“This is shocking but it’s not shocking,” Ms. Denhollander said. “Someone like Larry doesn’t get away with becoming the worst sexual abuser in history in plain sight if he were not surrounded by people who had no problem with his conduct and did not think it was a big deal.”

Michigan State’s interim president, John Engler, last month took steps to start the process of revoking Dr. Strampel’s tenure. University officials did not answer questions Tuesday about the status of the revocation, and did not respond to a request to interview Mr. Engler.

For years, university officials largely dismissed reports that Dr. Nassar had assaulted women, even though some women said they had reported abuse years ago to coaches, trainers or counselors.

On Tuesday, State Senator Margaret O’Brien, a Republican, said “this university needs to own up to what it did.”

“This won’t just go away,” Ms. O’Brien said. “They should know that by now.”

On the campus of Michigan State, students said they were unsettled by the arrest of Dr. Strampel, who came to the College of Osteopathic Medicine in the 1990s after a career that included stints in the surgeon general’s office and several hospitals.

The college enrolls more than 1,200 students and graduates about 300 physicians each year. Graduates earn a D.O. degree instead of the more common M.D., but are full-fledged doctors able to prescribe medication, perform surgeries and choose any specialty. Students also study the osteopathic techniques of manipulating the spine, muscles and bones to diagnose and treat patients.

Dr. Strampel, who could face up to nine years in prison if convicted of all charges, arrived at his home outside Lansing after his court appearance on Tuesday afternoon. A woman who came to the door declined to comment.

Aly Raisman, an Olympic gymnast who said Dr. Nassar abused her, wrote on Instagram that the charges against Dr. Strampel were “yet another painful example” of how so much had been mishandled.

“At this point, it’s clear that failing to investigate and understand how this abuse could go on for so long is just asking history to repeat itself,” said Ms. Raisman, who called for a broader investigation “that looks into everything, not just Nassar.”

Fifty years later, the 1968 presidential election and the Vietnam War still shadow American politics. But the war actually had little effect on the vote that November — even though surveys showed that Vietnam was by far the most important issue on voters’ minds, they saw little difference between the Republican nominee, Richard Nixon, and his Democratic opponent, Hubert H. Humphrey, both of whom they scored “slightly conservative” on the University of Michigan’s seven-point “Vietnam scale.”

The real consequences of the election and the war were on the Democratic Party, with collateral effects on the Republicans. The Democrats’ united, confident and longstanding commitment to the spread of liberal values throughout the world eroded in the aftermath. Fragmented by internal divisions over the war, the party also overhauled its process for choosing presidential candidates in ways that upended its previous domination by Southerners, unions and big-city bosses.

The decade had begun with the election of John F. Kennedy, whose main issue in the 1960 presidential campaign was the Cold War, which he believed America was losing to the Soviet Union. Kennedy pledged in his Inaugural Address to do whatever was necessary “to assure the survival and success of liberty,” a declaration that placed him squarely in the tradition of his party.

Ever since Woodrow Wilson and Franklin D. Roosevelt led the United States onto the world stage as a promoter of liberal values during the first half of the 20th century, most Democrats had been comfortable with this role. Indeed, an animating premise of Democratic liberalism was that the federal government has the ability to solve virtually any problem it chooses to take on, domestic or foreign.

Soon after taking office, Kennedy began escalating American military involvement in Vietnam. In June 1961, following the failed Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba, he told James Reston of The New York Times that “we have a problem in making our power credible” and “Vietnam is the place.” By November 1963, Kennedy had dispatched 16,300 military advisers to South Vietnam. As late as the morning of Nov. 22, he said, “Without the United States, South Vietnam would collapse overnight.”

Assuming the presidency when Kennedy was assassinated a few hours later, Lyndon B. Johnson felt bound to continue his predecessor’s course. Less confident about Vietnam than he was about domestic matters, Johnson regularly asked the foreign policy advisers he inherited from Kennedy — chiefly Secretary of State Dean Rusk, Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara, and his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy — what Kennedy would have done, and then he did it. Their confident recommendation was that the American commitment to victory in Vietnam must be maintained.

After Johnson was elected in 1964 to a term in his own right, hawkish pressures from the administration’s Kennedy alumni intensified. In February 1965 Bundy returned from South Vietnam and said that the war was lost unless the United States launched a sustained bombing campaign against the North. Johnson quickly approved Operation Rolling Thunder, which lasted, with brief pauses, for three years, the largest sustained air campaign in the history of warfare. With repeated reassurance from his advisers that eventually a “crossover point” would be reached at which the Communists decided they couldn’t win, Johnson steadily increased the American troop presence in Vietnam, which rose above a half-million.

To raise the manpower needed, Johnson saw conscription as a less politically risky approach than calling up the reserves or National Guard, which would have forced many married, middle-class men to leave their jobs and families. College students, whose numbers had swelled to 7.5 million from 2.1 million in 1952, became increasingly alarmed that the draft soon would extend to them. “The draft was the best organizing tool we had,” said the antiwar activist Sam Brown. Not just male students but also their sisters and girlfriends joined protests against the war on campuses and in Washington.

Demonstrations were not the only manifestation of the growing opposition to the war. Senator Eugene McCarthy and — after seeing how vulnerable Johnson was to an intraparty challenge when McCarthy nearly won the March 12 New Hampshire primary — Senator Robert F. Kennedy entered the race for the Democratic nomination. Days afterward, Johnson’s “wise men,” 14 high-ranking foreign policy officials from recent administrations who previously had endorsed his conduct of the war, told the president that “we must take steps to disengage.” Johnson withdrew from the election at the end of the month.

As the spring primary season unfolded, McCarthy vied with Kennedy to be the main antiwar alternative to Vice President Humphrey, who delayed announcing his candidacy until April 27, too late to compete in the primaries. Kennedy won all but one head-to-head primary contest with McCarthy before being assassinated on June 4. But even if Kennedy had lived, Humphrey’s nomination was essentially sealed by support from the Democratic Party’s Southern, labor and organizational wings, which dominated delegate selection and, ultimately, controlled the nomination.

Humphrey wanted to move his party’s platform in a slightly dovish direction to placate Kennedy and McCarthy supporters, but he backed off when Johnson told him that doing so would “endanger American troops,” that he “would have their blood on my hands.” The consequence was that the Democratic platform ended up more hawkish on Vietnam than the Republican one, which at least called for a “de-Americanization” of the war.

Plagued by war protesters and trailing Nixon badly in the polls, Humphrey pledged at the end of September to stop the bombing of North Vietnam. His campaign steadily gained strength from that day on, rising from a low of 29 percent in a Gallup poll early that fall to near parity with Nixon by Election Day.

Nixon’s victory, however narrow, broke the Democratic Party’s record of seven victories in the previous nine elections, most of them by a landslide. Once united in support of an assertive foreign policy, Democrats now were fiercely divided entering the 1972 presidential nominating contest. One leading contender, the strongly anti-Communist Senator Henry Jackson, was squarely in the old Democratic tradition. With support from party heavyweights such as the A.F.L.-C.I.O. president George Meany and Mayor Richard Daley of Chicago, he may well have been nominated under the rules that prevailed in 1968.

But in a concession to antiwar delegates at the 1968 convention, Humphrey had not opposed a resolution requiring that in the future “all feasible efforts” would be “made to assure that delegates are selected through primary, convention or committee procedures open to public participation.” A postelection commission headed by Senator George McGovern and Representative Donald Fraser fleshed out this resolution with rules requiring that every delegate in 1972 and after be chosen in a primary or caucus open to every Democratic voter.

With grass-roots party activists now driving delegate selection, McGovern won 15 primaries and Jackson none. Humphrey had not won any primaries either in 1968, but under the pre-McGovern-Fraser rules that did not prevent the party’s leaders from making him the nominee. In 1972 these leaders were outshouted by war opponents who had carried McGovern to victory in the primaries.

McGovern lost the election to Nixon, but the new activist-centered party he midwifed remained. The party lost interest in using American power, and spent the next generation trying to constrain it. Democratic Congresses voted to hem in Nixon’s war-making power by enacting the War Powers Resolution and forbade President Gerald Ford to continue to supply arms to the government of South Vietnam, which quickly fell to the Communists.

They hamstrung President Ronald Reagan’s efforts to roll back Communist advances in Central America and did their best to impose a “nuclear freeze” on America’s arsenal. They opposed President George H. W. Bush’s Gulf war.

Only with victory in the Cold War in the early 1990s did Democrats begin regain a trace of their old confidence that American involvement in the world, especially for humanitarian reasons, should sometimes be embraced. Bill Clinton, the party’s victorious nominee in 1992 and 1996, made clear that he was not a “McGovern Democrat.”

The Republican Party was a bystander to the changes in the presidential nominating process, but was still affected by them. The Democrats’ move toward a primaries-based system required alterations to state election laws that opened Republican nominations to grass-roots capture as well, albeit grudgingly and with party leaders better able to hold the reins of power for a longer time.

But just as the Democratic nomination after 1968 was won by political outsiders such as McGovern in 1972 and, four years later, Jimmy Carter, so eventually was the Republican. How else to explain the ability of history’s ultimate outsider, Donald Trump, to become the 2016 Republican nominee despite the near unanimous opposition of established party leaders?

And is it mere coincidence that what had happened among Democrats starting with McGovern finally happened among Republicans? Voters in both parties have always been more reluctant than public officials to embrace foreign aid, military deployments and multinational agreements. In 2016, Republican primary voters seized the opportunity to choose a candidate who disdained his party’s previous support of these pillars of an assertive foreign policy. History doesn’t repeat itself, but sometimes it does rhyme.

SUNDAY PUZZLE — Forgive me for repeating myself to the regulars, but for any Sunday-only solvers (or Wordplay readers), this weekend is the 41st annual American Crossword Puzzle Tournament. If you’re interested in seeing how any of your fellow solvers and constructors are doing, there’s lots of information on their site; if you’re interested in a challenge, you can also buy the tournament puzzles to solve online.

Our constructor today, Finn Vigeland, is there. We’ve got this one to chew on at home, though. It’s a good one — the theme crept up on me, at least, and I was duly impressed with how slickly the theme answers wove themselves into the grid.

Step one: There are six down clues that contain three bubbles in a row. Although the puzzle is of normal diagonal symmetry, these entries aren’t. Three are on the left-hand (west) side of the grid and three are on the right, though, and that’s important.

On the west side, the three letters read S-U-N in each case, a setting “sun.” For example, at 58D, the answer is SUNK COST, and the first three letters are circled. On the east side, the three letters are reversed, so the “sun” rises, as in 52D, for one: MENUS.

This is pretty cute and simple, and on another day or another place that could’ve been it. I knew enough to look for the next layer of trickery, though, and for a little anxious while I couldn’t find it. But here is step two:

For each of these instances, the word “sun” gets used in a phrase that is clued in a corresponding across clue, that runs across to the “S” in “sun,” turns down (in the west) or up (in the east) to the “n,” then turns again, to the right, to finish using a few letters from another across clue. Aaugh, you say?

Let’s look at the middle entry on the west side, that uses 58D (SUNK COST) as the source for that necessary “sun.” The across entry that ends in the “s” that starts that “sun” is 56A, “Hollywood labor groups.” I was scratching my head when I deduced that entry to be ACTORS, an incomplete definition to be sure. But then I filled in the entry that used the “n” in that same “sun,” 67A, “2015 hit spinoff of Despicable Me.” This was MINIONS. If you’re looking for labor groups, you’ll see ACTORS UNIONS right there, starting with 56A, the theme clue, ACTORS; turning down at 58D, SUNK COST; and turning right when you meet 67A, MINIONS.

I could see the upper west entry being a bit confounding, as out of all of the theme words, 26A on its own — MEGATS — wasn’t a word or a decipherable beginning to any phrase. The rest of the clues broke up a bit more cleanly, but I don’t begrudge Mr. Vigeland this entry, it was just challenging. The rest of the rules to this game were tightly observed.

My favorite was the middle right-hand phrase, where “sun” ran upward in the aforementioned MENUS. The clue that ended in the “s” from that sun was 68A, “How someone in awe might describe himself,” and I found no way to make sense of it as I filled out, using crosses, MONKEYS. The clue at 60A was definitely a “tricky” one. I, adult student of plant science and botany, felt pretty smart knowing PEDUNCLE — I can’t imagine that being in most people’s vocabulary, and it’s been in The Times exactly once before, in a 2002 acrostic. Nevertheless, PEDUNCLE is necessary to our second clever phrase. If you read MONKEYS across —> SUN up —> NCLE right, you get MONKEY’S UNCLE. As in, “I’ll be a monkey’s uncle!”

As far as cluing, Mr. Vigeland uses a lot of idiom and humor in his entries, most of which I found fresh and fun. I loved the clues for ARMHOLE, REIGN, DEF, DHS, EMAILING, DELETE, EDU, TRIOS, DIME and RYE. I took small issue with UNWED and REAL TALK.

22A: A habitual drinker is a ROUNDER, one who makes the rounds (from bar to bar, or drunk tank to tank).

48A: I’m sure there’s a crossword-solving ultramarathoner with a couple of grandkids that’s going to look sideways at this clue, although it does own up, at least, to overgeneralizing. This isn’t the first time GRANNIES has been an entry in the puzzle, but it’s previously been clued as “certain knots” rather than “ones in rocking chairs, stereotypically.”

54A: This clue, “Start to many bumper stickers,” I HEART it. There aren’t nearly enough I HEART SOMETHING bumper stickers around anymore; was that a phase? We had those magnetic ribbons for every cause known to man, and now I feel like this kind of ornamentation has gotten a lot less common on our cars.

88A: There is a beautiful pale jade color that signifies early spring and delicate Asian pottery, called “celadon,” but that didn’t fit here. The answer that did is less satisfying, somehow; TEA GREEN seems like a gotcha to me, since “green tea” is so common in paint company palettes and the like.

113A: I misentered “Version” for this one word clue, “Draft.” It clogged up that bottom foot for a few minutes. This is one of those words with a lot of options: soldier’s call up, order at a pub, annual sporting event, kind of horse, or a chilly breeze, as in this case, indicating AIR FLOW. After the last few weeks, in our area at least, this probably should have been the first definition to come to mind.

122A: Another botanical reference, TANSIES are in the aster family. They’re the little yellow button flowers that you see growing on the side of the road or in meadows, cute but considered a toxic menace in the United States and not grown in gardens (on purpose).

5D: Who would have thought that SAMSUNG a) “means ‘three stars’” and b) is a Times crossword debut? Turns out this ol’ technology giant dates back to 1938, as a company exporting produce and fish to Manchuria and Beijing. The three stars represent prosperity, status and longevity — that last attribute seems facetious, when you’re talking about smartphones.

33D: The answer here, TIN HATS, meaning “paranoid sorts, in slang,” seemed to be missing its foil. The slang term refers to people who haberdash themselves with aluminum to prevent some sort of invasive invisible waves from penetrating their skulls and scrambling up their brains. I really hope that we won’t learn one day that Wi-Fi does this, don’t you?

44D: The term ACID TEST, meaning an irrefutable evaluation, reoccurs in the puzzle from time to time. This usage stems from old-time metallurgy, when the quality of gold was verified using the touchstone method; nowadays, I think more of Ken Kesey’s parties. Those go back 50 years now too, pretty old-timey. Nostalgia!

75D: We’ve been seeing these SpaceX rocket liftoffs lately, and I think they do use T MINUS ZERO at the end of the countdown; T equals time in this phrase. This clue made me think of a wonderful old radio show, “X Minus One,” that’s available now in podcast form. A quick Google search didn’t elucidate what these two terms have in common, in case anyone knows.

If you’re raging against the dying of the light, let some sunshine in and take a peek at the answer key. While the answers are free to everyone, the Crossword puzzles require a subscription.

What did you think?

On Feb. 17, 1965, Vice President Hubert Humphrey sent President Lyndon B. Johnson a memorandum stating the United States must begin an exit strategy in Vietnam: “It is always hard to cut losses. But the Johnson administration is in a stronger position to do so now than any administration in this century.” Johnson had trounced Barry Goldwater in the 1964 election — and thus, no longer had to prove he was tough on Communism — and the conflict had not developed into a full-blown war. “Nineteen sixty-five is the year of minimum political risk,” Humphrey wrote.

Humphrey gave Johnson the opportunity to change the course of history: By pulling out of Vietnam, he could have avoided opposition from his own party and seeing his vision for the Great Society jeopardized by a foreign war and his aspirations for nuclear disarmament between the Soviet Union and the United States thwarted.

Johnson ignored Humphrey’s advice. In fact, he was described as infuriated with the vice president; the day after receiving the memo, Johnson told his national security adviser, McGeorge Bundy, that Humphrey should “stay out of the peacekeeping and negotiating field” on Vietnam.

The president went further, and more or less banned him from the Oval Office for the remainder of 1965. Humphrey lost his responsibilities in the administration on civil rights — the subject that elevated him to the Senate in 1948, when he told the Democrats at their national convention they needed to “get out of the shadow of states’ rights and to walk forthrightly into the bright sunshine of human rights.”

Humphrey, who had long been the most prominent and productive liberal in the Senate — and the Democrat (other than Johnson) most responsible for the passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, seemingly vanished from the public eye overnight, In August 1965, the comedian and musician Tom Lehrer sang to a raucous audience, “Whatever Became of You, Hubert?”:

Vietnam destined Humphrey to a miserable four years as Johnson’s vice president. For his dissent against the war (his “disloyalty”), Humphrey suffered the brunt of Johnson’s unpredictable wrath. Humphrey’s advisers felt Johnson’s intimidating, dismissive treatment was the reason Humphrey reversed his position on Vietnam a year later: why he defended the war as a necessary fight against Communism that provided jobs, hope and prosperity to suffering Vietnamese. It was his only way back into his boss’s good graces.

Humphrey’s support for the war condemned him in history as a supporting player in the tragedy of Vietnam. The war alienated Humphrey from liberals, civil rights activists and young Americans — the same people who, for decades, had loved Humphrey for his support of racial justice, full employment and the labor movement — and ultimately cost him the presidency in 1968. Voters thought Humphrey meant continued war, while Richard Nixon promised “an honorable end to the war in Vietnam.”

But given what we now know the history of the Vietnam War after 1968, Hubert Humphrey — both his life and political career — deserves re-examination. Humphrey forces us to consider the history that might have been: the possibility of ending the Vietnam War before 1973, an expansion of the Great Society in the 1970s, a different America. Without Vietnam (and his being Johnson’s vice president), Humphrey might have won in 1968. The country — and the world — would be drastically different.

Hubert Humphrey arrived in the Senate in 1949 as a liberal in an illiberal institution. Southerners held the reins of power in Congress, and they hated Humphrey for his opposition to Jim Crow segregation and “that speech” at the Democratic National Convention.

While he was determined in his quest for social justice, his legislation often stalled in committee. He gravitated toward the one man who could help him: Lyndon Johnson. By 1954, Johnson needed Humphrey too — Johnson had become Senate majority leader and wanted liberals to fall behind his leadership; Johnson concluded Humphrey was the brightest and most pragmatic of them. It was a devil’s bargain: Johnson helped Humphrey with his relationships with Southerners, and Humphrey vowed to keep the liberals in line.

The partnership between Johnson and Humphrey was as close as that of two antagonists could be. When Johnson became president in November 1963, Humphrey ensured that the Civil Rights Act overcame the Senate filibuster the following summer. Johnson recognized Humphrey’s talents as a legislator and orator (“There are so many ways I envy you,” Johnson said in 1951), and chose Humphrey as his vice president in 1964 — but not before asking Humphrey for his backing (“unswerving loyalty,” as Humphrey recalled) on all his decisions. When Mississippi civil rights activists tried to force the Democratic Party to recognize them over the state’s official, segregationist delegation at the 1964 national convention, it was Humphrey who, on Johnson’s orders, made them back down.

Once in office, Humphrey tried to keep his commitment to Johnson, but on Vietnam his convictions conflicted with his promises. Humphrey had been suspicious of American involvement in Vietnam since the mid-1950s, but became more incredulous of the war’s success after meeting with the veteran intelligence officer Edward Lansdale in 1964, who argued that a political solution to the war was possible. Humphrey sent several memos to Johnson in 1964 implying Johnson should pull back on the conflict, and that he meet with Lansdale. Johnson dismissed each one.

Then, on Feb. 7, 1965, American forces were attacked at Pleiku and nine Americans were killed. Bundy, the national security adviser, sent panicked cables to Johnson demanding the United States retaliate. When Johnson asked Humphrey his thoughts on bombing North Vietnam, Humphrey responded, “Mr. President, I don’t think we should.” Johnson ordered the bombing anyway. Then Humphrey wrote his Feb. 17 memo, and his fate was sealed for 1965.

But Johnson gave Humphrey one last chance to prove his loyalty, sending him to South Vietnam in February 1966 (almost one year to the date of his memo). On that trip, after meeting with Gen. William Westmoreland, American and Vietnamese soldiers, and South Vietnamese civilians, Humphrey convinced himself of the truth he wanted to believe: Vietnam was winnable; it was a war for democracy; it represented a global mission for peace and prosperity.

Humphrey’s adviser Thomas Hughes recalled that Humphrey returned from Vietnam “saying things that were crazy” about the virtues of the war. In a meeting of the National Security Council in June 1966, Humphrey said, “I have come around reluctantly to accepting the wider bombing program.”

For two years, Humphrey seemed to genuinely believe that Vietnam was a necessary war, that it represented a fight against global poverty and Communist tyranny. Humphrey convinced Johnson he believed this, that he had changed, and was welcomed back into Johnson’s good graces. (After Humphrey encouraged Johnson’s staff members to send the president his speeches supporting the war, Humphrey was admitted to the president’s luncheons on Vietnam.)

But as he promoted the war to the American people (his main task after 1966), Humphrey was increasingly taunted by the antiwar movement. When Humphrey emerged as the Democratic candidate in 1968 — after the assassination of Robert Kennedy and the upheaval at the Democratic National Convention — “Dump the Hump” became a common motto. Signs with slogans such as “Killer of Babies” and “Humphrey’s Johnson’s War Salesman” regularly greeted him on the campaign trail.

The protests agonized Humphrey. “All I had ever been as a liberal spokesman seemed lost, all that I had accomplished in significant programs was ignored. I felt robbed of my personal history,” he recalled.

On Sept. 30, 1968, Humphrey had enough of Johnson and his war, and in a speech in Salt Lake City he demanded a halt to the bombing. Humphrey called Johnson to warn him of the speech hours before. Johnson reacted coldly: “I take it you are not asking for my advice. You’re going to give the speech anyway.” Johnson then shunned Humphrey for the remainder of 1968 — indeed, the question remains whether Johnson favored Richard Nixon over Humphrey in the election, and whether Johnson’s hatred of Humphrey led to his loss.

But what if Humphrey had not been Johnson’s vice president — what if Humphrey remained in the Senate? What if Eugene McCarthy received the vice-presidential nomination in 1964 as he wanted? McCarthy would have become Humphrey: forced to defend America’s policy in Vietnam, and painted as a patsy for Johnson’s War. Humphrey would be the skeptic on Vietnam, and eventual vociferous critic — but also more palatable to the party establishment than McCarthy ever was. Divisions within the party would be united under a Humphrey candidacy in 1968, the wounds Vietnam opened among “New Democrats” healed by a Cold War liberal.

Humphrey could have won in 1968 under these circumstances. Would Humphrey have faced the same pressure as Nixon to end the war with “peace through honor?” Most likely, and certainly during his first term. But Humphrey would have immediately searched for a political solution to the war — for the conflict to end peacefully, and without further military commitment. Needless to say, he also would have continued to expand the Great Society, and not begin its long demolition, as Nixon did.

For these reasons, Humphrey represents the possibilities for a different history for the United States after 1968, particularly for Democrats looking today to rebuild their party and understand the mistakes of the past. Vietnam turned America’s leading liberal into a personification of liberalism’s failures. This is the tragedy of Hubert Humphrey and his Vietnam War — one that shapes Americans today.

Taking the step to buy your first home may feel like a leap — across a canyon. You will probably be spending more money at once than you have ever spent in your life, and committing to spend even more money that you don’t have, all while becoming responsible for something that won’t necessarily love you back.

To make matters worse, 2018 presents a new set of problems for rookie home buyers: a new tax law whose full effects have yet to be felt on homeowner taxes or property values; record low inventory; tough credit; and rising mortgage rates.

So should you make that leap?

How the new Republican tax plan approved late last year will affect housing isn’t completely clear yet, but buying a home in 2018 will likely become more expensive, especially for buyers who live in high-tax states. Taxpayers used to be able to deduct all of their state and local taxes, including property taxes, state income taxes and city income taxes, from their federal taxes. Now those deductions are capped at $10,000 — and at $5,000 for married taxpayers filing separately.

In New Jersey, for example, the average 2017 property tax bill was $8,690 across the state, according to the New Jersey Department of Community Affairs, and more than $11,000 in counties that make up the suburbs of New York City. Those homeowners are likely to blow past the new deduction cap before they’re even done with their property taxes.

At the same time, the standard deduction has been raised to $12,000 for single filers and married people filing separately, $18,000 for a head of household and $24,000 for married couples filing jointly. So in 2018, it may make more sense for taxpayers to take the standard deduction instead of itemizing and taking the state and local tax deduction.

For taxpayers who decide to continue itemizing instead of taking the higher standard deduction, the cap on how much of those taxes can be deducted will no doubt hurt, said Sheila Brandenberg, a C.P.A. who serves on the personal finance planning committee for the New York State Society of C.P.A.s. “For most of my clients, those two numbers were over $10,000 when you added them together. They’re losing that benefit,” she said.

And tax changes affecting mortgages are also likely to hurt first-time home buyers — or any of us who can’t afford to buy a home with cash. That’s because the tax law cut the deduction for mortgage insurance premiums, those monthly payments tacked onto most mortgages when the buyer makes less than a 20 percent down payment.

The mortgage interest deduction has also been lowered: mortgage holders could previously deduct mortgage interest on up to $1 million of a mortgage. For 2018, that has been lowered to $750,000 (or $375,000 for married taxpayers filing separately).

“The tax laws used to have a heavy tax incentive skewing the decision-making process in favor of homeownership. It’s been largely eliminated, in my opinion,” said Stephen M. Breitstone, partner and chair of the Private Wealth and Taxation Group at Meltzer, Lippe, Goldstein & Breitstone.

Most parts of the new tax law, including the state and local tax deduction cap and the new mortgage interest deduction limit, are set to expire in seven years. B ut “it’s almost impossible to predict,” Mr. Breitstone said, whether or not that will actually happen. “We just don’t know what the economy will be, what the state of deficits will be.”

How all of this will eventually affect potential buyers’ attitudes — and therefore home values — is unclear. “We’re going to have a year or two or three of price discovery,” said Jonathan Miller, president of the real estate appraisal firm Miller Samuel.

Even for those ready to buy, historically low inventory around the country, especially in the entry and midpriced levels of the market, is raising prices for what is available, said Lawrence Yun, chief economist and senior vice president of research for the National Association of Realtors. Total housing inventory at the end of January rose 4.1 percent to 1.52 million existing homes for sale, but that is still 9.5 percent lower than it was in January of last year, and the number has fallen year-over-year for 32 consecutive months.

“During the housing recession, there were many Wall Street investors who came in and scooped up some properties that used to be for owner occupancy, but they purchased to rent it out,” Dr. Yun said. “Wall Street investors are not unloading those properties, so that part of the inventory has been taken out of the market.”

And even as the population has grown, Dr. Yun said, “building has been under historical records for the last decade,” compounding the problem.

Plus, many homeowners who may want to trade up aren’t doing that. “I think buyers are going to be more pessimistic than sellers. Sellers are going to just not sell if they don’t get their price,” Mr. Miller said. “In the New York City metro area, there is a clear shortage of entry to midrange properties, and an oversupply of luxury apartments.”

This all means that whatever is out there right now for that entry to middle market is more expensive than it would otherwise be, Dr. Yun said, by “six to seven percent, which is about three times as fast as people’s income growth.”

He doesn’t expect available housing stock to return to normal levels for “at least a couple of years,” he said. “The worst in the inventory shortage may be coming to an end, but it will still feel like a shortage even into next year.”

Morris A. Davis, chair of real estate and professor of finance at Rutgers Business School, warned of another factor that could keep housing inventory low, or pinch it further: millennials.

“There’s a massive slog of potential first-time home buyers about to hit the marketplace,” he said. “Many of them are in prime childbearing age, and the single most predictor of whether or not you buy a home is whether you have children.”

Financing to buy a home continues to be tight because “we’re still in the hangover phase of the financial crisis,” Mr. Miller said. “Credit conditions are so tight that when a borrower is at the closing table, they get the feeling that the lender is still looking for reasons not to lend up until that moment.”

And that is affecting not just first-time buyers but also current homeowners who might want to move. Homeowners who think they will have trouble getting a new mortgage may decide not to sell and upsize or downsize, keeping all those homes off the market.

In the short term, Mr. Miller said he expects rising interest rates to reduce affordability, although that could ease credit conditions in the long term. Higher interest rates generally give banks more of a spread between the lower rates at which the banks borrow and the higher rates at which they lend to consumers. “When the spread’s very narrow, because you can’t go much lower than things are right now, you’re risk averse as a lender,” he said.

With interest rates currently at 4.54 percent for a 30-year-fixed rate mortgage per Bankrate — which is still a relatively low rate, despite having increased in the last year — lenders don’t have much incentive to lend. But higher interest rates could change that and eventually make it easier for first-time buyers to get a mortgage.

The tax bill’s changes are still shaking out, but at least first-time buyers won’t feel sucker punched like those who bought their homes in the last few years and planned to take advantage of deductions that no longer exist. If you are a first-time buyer in 2018, you have the advantage of going in with your eyes wide open.

And as Dr. Davis noted, even when the tax code made owning a home a nice big deduction, the idea of a home as an investment was a shaky one. “It doesn’t have a great risk profile,” he said. “You’re taking a huge financial investment in exactly the same location that determines your labor income.”

Any asset that isn’t risk-free, he added, “has a recession risk in it, so if there’s any bad shocks to hit the U.S. economy and we walk into a recession, or the inflation rate rises, housing prices can change.”

Dr. Davis and brokers will likely tell you that what your decision should come down to is not so much whether you will make money off your home, or how much of a tax break you will or won’t get, but where you want to be — and for how long.

“A first-time home buyer is taking a bet on a metro area, and the first thing I’d ask the first-time home buyer is: Are you willing to commit to this metro area and this school district for the next 10 years,” Dr. Davis said, assuming you have or plan to have children. If the answer is yes, he added, “they shouldn’t really worry about whether prices are three percent higher than they should be.”

That is what pushed Cornelius Graubner and Lucian Leung-Graubner, who rent in Williamsburg, to start looking at homes in areas within an hour’s commute of New York City. “Thinking about long term, we want a place that we can really stretch and grow,” said Ms. Leung-Graubner, 32, a program manager at a community-based organization in adult education. She means that in a very real sense of the word: She wants a “garden in my backyard beyond growing little herbs.”

Mr. Graubner grew up in rural Germany; Ms. Leung-Graubner in Jackson Heights. While they are factoring property taxes and potentially higher interest rates into their decision — Mr. Graubner, 39, a product manager for a risk analytics company, has it all modeled on a spreadsheet — their goal to have more space, in a more permanent spot, in a community they like is more important.

“We’ve always said we wouldn’t mind waking up in the morning and not seeing the neighbor first thing,” Mr. Graubner said.

Was America’s war in Vietnam a noble struggle against Communist aggression, a tragic intervention in a civil conflict, or an imperialist counterrevolution to crush a movement of national liberation? Those competing interpretations ignited fiery debates in the 1960s and remain unresolved today. How we name and define this most controversial of American wars is not a narrow scholarly exercise, but profoundly shapes public memory of its meaning and ongoing significance to American national identity and foreign policy.

During the war years, America’s leaders insisted that military force was necessary to defend a sovereign nation — South Vietnam — from external Communist aggression. As President Lyndon B. Johnson put it in 1965, “The first reality is that North Vietnam has attacked the independent nation of South Vietnam. Its object is total conquest.”

Even more disturbing, Johnson quickly added (following a script written by his predecessors Harry Truman, Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy), the Communists in Vietnam were supported and guided by the Soviet Union and China. Therefore, the war in South Vietnam was not an isolated, local conflict, irrelevant to American national security, but rather one that was inseparable from the nation’s highest priority — the Cold War struggle to contain Communism around the globe. Further raising the stakes, policymakers warned that if South Vietnam fell to Communism, neighboring countries would inevitably fall in turn, one after another, like a row of dominoes.

Three decades later, Robert McNamara, a key architect of the Vietnam War who served as defense secretary for both Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, renounced those wartime claims — the very ones he and others had invoked to justify the war. In two books, “In Retrospect” (1995) and “Argument Without End” (2000), McNamara conceded that the United States had been “terribly wrong” to intervene in Vietnam. He attributed the failure to a lack of knowledge and judgment. If only he had understood the fervor of Vietnamese nationalism, he wrote, if only he had known that Hanoi was not the pawn of Beijing or Moscow, if only he had realized that the domino theory was wrong, he might have persuaded his presidential bosses to withdraw from Vietnam. Millions of lives would have been saved. If only.

In fact, however, in the 1960s, when McNamara advocated massive military escalation in Vietnam, he simply rejected or ignored any evidence that contradicted Cold War orthodoxy. It’s not as if contrary views were unavailable. In the work of the scholar-journalist Bernard Fall, the pages of I. F. Stone’s Weekly, speeches at university teach-ins and antiwar rallies and countless other venues, critics pointed out that after World War II the United States made a clear choice to support the French effort to re-establish its colonial rule in Indochina, and eventually assumed the bulk of France’s cost for the first Indochina War. It should have been no surprise, therefore, that Vietnamese revolutionaries perceived the United States as a neocolonial power when it committed its own military forces in the next war.

Moreover, critics argued, the primary roots of opposition to the American-backed government in Saigon were indigenous and deep rooted, not just in North Vietnam, but throughout the South.

Indeed, from the late 1950s through the mid-1960s the bulk of Communist-led fighting was carried out by southern guerrillas of the National Liberation Front, known to its enemies as the Vietcong. Only after the war was well underway did large units from North Vietnam arrive on the southern front. Antiwar opponents also challenged the claim that South Vietnam was an “independent nation” established by the Geneva Accords of 1954. Those agreements called for a temporary partition of Vietnam to be shortly followed by a nationwide election to choose a single leader for a unified Vietnam. When it became clear to both Saigon and Washington that the Communist leader Ho Chi Minh would be the overwhelming victor, the South Vietnamese government of Ngo Dinh Diem, with American support, decided to cancel the election.

Thus began a two-decade failed effort to build a permanent country called “South Vietnam.” The government in Saigon was never a malleable puppet of the United States, but it was nonetheless wholly dependent on American military and economic support to survive against its enemies, including many non-Communist parties and factions in the South.

Armed with these criticisms, many opponents of American policy in the 1960s described Vietnam as a civil war — not like the relatively clear-cut North-South division of the American Civil War, but a nationwide struggle of Communist-led forces of the South and North against the American-backed government in the South. By 1966, this analysis was even embraced by some mainstream politicians, including Senator William Fulbright, chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, and Senator Eugene McCarthy, who ran as an antiwar presidential candidate in 1968. Both men called attention to the “South Vietnamese civil war” to emphasize the strength of the southern insurgency and the failure of the Saigon government to gain the broad support of its own people.

By 1972, the idea that Vietnam posed a threat to Cold War America was so discredited, it sometimes sounded as if America’s only remaining war aim was to get back its P.O.W.s (President Richard Nixon bizarrely claimed that Hanoi was using them as “negotiating pawns”). Even more mind-boggling were Nixon’s historic 1972 trips to Beijing and Moscow. Many Americans wondered how Nixon could offer toasts of peace to Mao Zedong and Leonid Brezhnev while still waging war in Vietnam. As the journalist Jonathan Schell put it, “If these great powers were not, after all, the true foe,” then the war in Vietnam “really was a civil war in a small country, as its opponents had always said, and the United States had no business taking part in it.”

But alongside the “civil war” interpretation, a more radical critique developed — the view that America’s enemy in Vietnam was engaged in a long-term war for national liberation and independence, first from the French and then the United States. According to this position, the war was best understood not as a Cold War struggle between East and West, or a Vietnamese civil war, but as an anticolonial struggle, similar to dozens of others that erupted throughout the Third World in the wake of World War II. When the French were defeated by Vietnamese revolutionaries (despite enormous American support), the United States stepped in directly to wage a counterrevolutionary war against an enemy determined to achieve full and final independence from foreign control.

This interpretation was shared by many on the antiwar left, including Daniel Ellsberg, the once-hawkish defense analyst who turned so strongly against the war that he was willing to sabotage his career by making public 7,000 pages of classified documents about the history of the Vietnam War, the so-called Pentagon Papers. Ellsberg made his argument most succinctly in the 1974 documentary “Hearts and Minds.”

“The name for a conflict in which you are opposing a revolution is counterrevolution,” he said. “A war in which one side is entirely financed and equipped and supported by foreigners is not a civil war.” The question used to be, he added, “might it be possible that we were on the wrong side in the Vietnamese war. We weren’t on the wrong side; we are the wrong side.”

In the decades since 1975, all three major interpretations have persisted. Some writers and historians have embraced President Ronald Reagan’s view that the war was a “noble cause” that might have been won. That position has failed to persuade most specialists in the field, in large part because it greatly exaggerates the military and political virtues and success of the United States and the government of South Vietnam. It also falls short because it depends on counterfactual claims that victory would have been achieved if only the United States had extended its support for Diem (instead of greenlighting his overthrow), or tried a different military strategy, or done a better job winning hearts and minds. However, the war as it was actually conducted by the United States and its allies was a disaster by every measure.

In recent decades, a number of historians — particularly younger scholars trained in Vietnamese and other languages — have developed various versions of the civil war interpretation. Some of them view the period after the French defeat in 1954 as “post-colonial,” a time in which long-brewing internal conflicts between competing versions of Vietnamese nationalism came to a head. As the historian Jessica Chapman of Williams College puts it, “The Vietnam War was, at its core, a civil war greatly exacerbated by foreign intervention.” Others have described it as a civil war that became “internationalized.”

While these scholars have greatly enhanced our knowledge of the complexity and conflict in Vietnamese history, politics and culture, they don’t, in my view, assign enough responsibility to the United States for causing and expanding the war as a neocolonial power.

Let’s try a thought experiment. What if our own Civil War bore some resemblance to the Vietnamese “civil war”? For starters, we would have to imagine that in 1860 a global superpower — say Britain — had strongly promoted Southern secession, provided virtually all of the funding for the ensuing war and dedicated its vast military to the battle. We must also imagine that in every Southern state, local, pro-Union forces took up arms against the Confederacy. Despite enormous British support, Union forces prevailed. What would Americans call such a war? Most, I think, would remember it as the Second War of Independence. Perhaps African-Americans would call it the First War of Liberation. Only former Confederates and the British might recall it as a “civil war.”

I would reverse Chapman’s formula and say that the Vietnam War was, at its core, an American war that exacerbated Vietnamese divisions and internationalized the conflict. It is true, of course, that many Vietnamese opposed the Communist path to national liberation, but no other nationalist party or faction proved capable of gaining enough support to hold power. Without American intervention, it is hard to imagine that South Vietnam would have come into being or, if it did, that it would have endured for long.

Moreover, no other foreign nation deployed millions of troops to South Vietnam (although the United States did pressure or pay a handful of other nations, Australia and South Korea most notably, to send smaller military forces). And no other foreign nation or opponent dropped bombs (eight million tons!) on South and North Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos. The introduction of that staggering lethality was the primary driver of a war that cost three million lives, half of them civilians.

If we continue to excuse American conduct in Vietnam as a well-intentioned, if tragic, intervention rather than a purposeful assertion of imperial power, we are less likely to challenge current war managers who have again mired us in apparently endless wars based on false or deeply misleading pretexts. Just as in the Vietnam era, American leaders have ordered troops to distant lands based on boundless abstractions (“the global war on terror” instead of the global threat of “international Communism”). And once again, their mission is to prop up governments that demonstrate no capacity to gain the necessary support of their people. Once again, the United States has waged brutal counterinsurgencies guaranteed to maim, kill or displace countless civilians. It has exacerbated international violence and provoked violent retaliation.

Our leaders, then and now, have insisted that the United States is “the greatest force for good in the world” that wants nothing for itself, only to defeat “terror” and bring peace, stability and self-determination to other lands. The evidence does not support such a claim. We need a new, cleareyed vision of our global conduct. A more critical appraisal of the past is one place to start.

In the luxury watch trade, video’s the thing.

From slickly produced segments that take viewers on vicarious journeys through Switzerland to single-take product reviews live-streamed from trade shows like the Baselworld fair this week, videos aimed at watch buyers and fans have flooded the internet — and their popularity is skyrocketing.

On the Hodinkee YouTube channel, for example, total video plays increased from nearly three million in 2015 to more than 7.6 million in 2017. WatchBox Studios, a video operation founded by the Philadelphia-based watch retailer Govberg, boasts even more impressive statistics: Combined views for the company’s three YouTube channels now average 1.1 million per month, according to the owner, Danny Govberg.

The growth mirrors what’s happening in the wider world, with technology specialists describing a post-text future in which audio and video dominate. “The younger consumer is looking for motion,” said David Bates, managing director of ATK PLN, a Dallas-based video content agency. “They expect it.”

And just like the entertainment industry — where content from traditional movie studios and TV networks is being outpaced by the likes of Netflix and Amazon Studios — the expensive productions offered by many of Switzerland’s biggest brands have largely failed to find audiences.

For example: Hublot’s YouTube channel has more than 20,000 subscribers and a recent Floyd Mayweather piece drew almost 7,500 views, but many of its videos have fewer than 500 views. And a recent Girard-Perregaux video, a computer-generated look inside a timepiece that’s similar to many other brand videos online, hasn’t reached 600 views.

Videos by editors and retailers published to YouTube, Vimeo and their own platforms have been filling the void.

(It’s interesting to note that the most powerful brand in the industry, Rolex, introduced its YouTube channel in 2012 — a year before Hodinkee’s debut there. Yet both have almost the same total views: 18 million.)

Here, a closer look at the watch universe’s most distinctive and sophisticated video creators.

Widely considered the watch trade’s most influential website, Hodinkee earned that reputation in part through its commitment to creating professional video content with a cinematic bent. “Anything from three-minute service journalism pieces to the more in-depth ‘Talking Watches’ episodes, where there’s more personality, more story and often a celebrity attached,” said Will Holloway, Hodinkee’s director of content and senior digital producer.

Mr. Holloway met Benjamin Clymer, the site’s founder, in 2010 while they were both students at Columbia University’s journalism program; three years later, he became the site’s third employee. Over the last year, Mr. Holloway, who’d long operated as a one-man band, hired two associate producers.

In January Mr. Holloway and one of those new associate producers accompanied six Hodinkee editors to Geneva for the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie, better known as S.I.H.H. There, they captured daily highlights of the watch fair in a series of three- to four-minute videos called “First Take,” posted on Vimeo and YouTube.

“We want to be ahead of the news cycle there, so those videos are a little less polished, but they do serve a purpose,” Mr. Holloway said. “On the menu of video options, they are sort of appetizers to what we offer.”

The main dishes, so to speak, are large scale, multipart travel shows, like “The Road Through Britain,” a five-part series from 2016 in which Mr. Holloway and a Hodinkee editor spent 12 days exploring British watchmaking, including a stop at Roger W. Smith’s remote workshop on the Isle of Man.

Last year, Mr. Holloway said, the operation created a record 62 videos, including live broadcasts; previously it had averaged about 30 a year. But its most popular video, with 1.3 million views, remains the first “Talking Watches” episode, a nine-minute clip from 2013 featuring John Mayer riffing on his favorite timepieces, Rolex chief among them (“A GMT is one of the world’s greatest apps,” the singer-songwriter said).

“This is escapism,” Mr. Holloway said. “Get away from the drudgery of the daily news cycle and be immersed in something, and if you say ‘Oh, wow’ a couple times, we’re doing a pretty good job.”

TheWatches.tv founder Marc André Deschoux was running an audiovisual production company in Geneva when he noticed the films that watch companies had him producing were languishing in cyberspace.

“They would cost hundreds of thousands of Swiss francs and I thought, ‘Who is looking at these videos?’ ” Mr. Deschoux said. “What was put into productions was disproportionate to their visibility.”

In 2011, he introduced the website TheWatches.tv to show “the industry with a bit less ceremonial approach,” he said. But it took a couple years for the site to gain traction outside of watch-centric Geneva — in part, he said, because the chief executives he used on-camera in his early videos “were not very good at communicating.”

That realization prompted Mr. Deschoux himself to step in front of the camera. Wearing his trademark thick-rimmed spectacles, he approaches the watch business — whether it’s a four-minute interview with a collector at S.I.H.H. or a 19-minute clip highlighting the history of Patek Philippe — as an exuberant neophyte. “There are enough forums and websites with a geeky approach,” he said. “We don’t go too much into the details. The benchmark I use: If my mom understands my videos, then I’m fine.”

Mr. Deschoux declined to specify the site’s financial details but said support comes from several sources: brand sponsorships (although, he stressed, “We always keep full editorial control of what we do and say”); a small amount of advertising revenue from YouTube; proceeds from an online store and a new patron program, which invites viewers to pledge monthly payments.

“I really love this idea that it is our viewers that help us finance our activity, it really materializes the community aspect” of the operation, Mr. Deschoux said. To continue in that vein, he said he would hold a news conference at Baselworld on Saturday to announce a travel program for watch lovers that he will begin this spring.

With a minimum of one new video per week, the site averages about 500,000 views per month, according to Mr. Deschoux. Its most popular video — with almost 1.4 million views — was published in 2013 and features an in-depth look at Jaeger-LeCoultre’s Gyrotourbillon family of timepieces.

“To be able to generate 10,000 views talking about watchmaking or a watch, it’s already pretty significant,” Mr. Deschoux said.

Ariel Adams posted his first video, a supplement to a written watch review, shortly after A Blog to Watch went live in 2007. “Because there were certain things you had to see,” Mr. Adams, the blog’s founder, said, “like what a watch looks like when you’re wearing it, or how it plays with the light.”

Since then, Mr. Adams has struggled to reconcile the economics of producing professional-style videos in an industry besieged by D.I.Y. makers who can attract thousands of viewers with provocative pieces made in their bedrooms.

“Good video is expensive,” he said. “Lighting, multiple cameras, audio, a director, a script. We’re talking about thousands of dollars per video. But then you have the ultra-novice guy that does everything himself — these guys are 100 percent motivated by their own personal success.”

Even as A Blog to Watch’s video strategy continues to evolve, Mr. Adams insisted that out of all the watch websites, “our videos feel most pro-consumer,” he said. “It’s really about trying to keep it real.”

So real, in fact, that on a recent clip from S.I.H.H., Mr. Adams and a fellow editor, David Bredan, joked about their continuing search for an audio engineer, epitomizing their videos’ conversational style. Mr. Adams acknowledged that these sorts of asides can frustrate viewers who are part of what he described as “the-internet-owes-me-an-answer generation.”

“They want the shortest, fastest video possible,” he said.

The straight talk is to continue this week at Baselworld, where A Blog to Watch has a delegation of four writer-photographers and “one person who’s new and is entirely about video, which is an investment for us,” Mr. Adams said.

“I’d like to have a lot more programming,” he added. “The question is what and how to pay for it?”

Unlike the other video makers described in this article, Watchonista, a Lausanne, Switzerland-based website founded in 2009, eschews talking heads on its clips, opting instead to focus on timepieces — at factories, on wrists and in lifestyle montages.

“We’re perfectly comfortable being behind the camera,” said Josh Shanks, managing editor of Watchonista’s U.S. operation. “We have unprecedented access to these brands and pieces. At a moment’s notice, we can be in the Vallée de Joux and shoot them right off the assembly line.” (The valley is considered the heart of high-end Swiss watchmaking, with Audemars Piguet, Jaeger-LeCoultre, Breuget and others based there.)

Wachonista entered the video arena in 2012, when it teamed with Tudor to promote the brand’s Black Bay Heritage collection. Since then, Watchonista’s efforts have mostly been editorial in nature, though many of its videos retain the look and feel of sponsored content. “That is one criticism we get,” Mr. Shanks said.

Relying on an in-house video team, Watchonista specializes in behind-the-scenes films, documenting the making of rare timepieces, including the DR01 Twelve First by Dominique Renaud.

Lately, however, the site has given its video coverage a more lifestyle-oriented focus. Last fall, for example, the Watchonista co-founder Alexander Friedman and a video team followed a group of social media influencers that had been invited to Rome for Bulgari’s two-day B-Dinner, excursion. Cue the Fiats and Instagram-worthy homages to the Eternal City.

“The idea was to do something more experiential,” Mr. Shanks said. “There’s such an oversaturation of watches, we can look beyond them.”

In February 2016, Mr. Govberg left a meeting with a creative agency in Miami with one takeaway: “It’s all about video,” he said.

Two years and $600,000 later, six sales associates-cum-broadcast journalists now work in the sophisticated in-house studio installed above his central Philadelphia store. Mr. Govberg describes the video production team, WatchBox Studios, as “the CNBC of watches” — and an important part of the WatchBox website that Mr. Govberg and his partners introduced last year to change online sales of pre-owned luxury watches.

The Govberg/WatchBox team produces about 50 reviews and six shows for its three YouTube channels every week (offerings include “Watch Science” and “Watch Girls A–Z”). The company also is gearing up to produce a WatchBox Live channel, where viewers can buy timepieces, as well as a dedicated IP channel for smart-TV viewers.

Since the first channel went live five years ago, the shows have generated more than 20 million views, 12 million of them in the past 12 months, according to Mr. Govberg.

One of WatchBox Studios’ best-known assets is Tim Mosso, a former United States Navy press officer-turned-watch expert, who delivers earnest, hands-on, sales-driven reviews of new products in his “This Week in Watches” show.

After a Roger Dubuis presentation at S.I.H.H., Mr. Mosso hunched over his iPhone, affixed to a tripod, and rattled off the specs of the watchmaker’s Excalibur Aventador S in pink gold. A smattering of editors watched him, marveling at his single-take delivery.

“In retail, nobody is doing what we’re doing,” Mr. Govberg said. “Our shows help educate. But the most important factor: They also entertain.”

Anyone who wants to start a watch collection has questions. So The New York Times asked watch experts around the world — at auction houses, in retail, collectors, bloggers, at internet sites and a trade foundation — for advice. Their replies, which were condensed and edited, ranged from how to make the first purchase to how to store watches properly, and much in between.

In such a critical period from the economic and politic points of view, investing our money in something certain is really complicated and watches are surely one of the best things to invest in. if we look at the prices of certain wristwatches we can see the their value today is so much higher than in the past.

GIORGIA MONDANI, 33, founder of Mondani Web, author of seven Mondani books on watches and editor of the Mondani magazine, based in Genoa, Italy

It’s like all collection, you have to fall in love with the object, being fascinating. You love the stamps, you have chances to start a collection of stamps. It’s the same with watches.

GRÉGORY GARDINETTI, 34, culture and patrimony manager, Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie, in Meyrin, Switzerland

A watch truly represents your personality and character without any form of communication. My relationship with my mechanical watches grounds me and pulls me out of this fast-paced and hectic world. Those few minutes of winding my watch in the morning are quite emotional and enjoyable and makes me feel like I’m rewinding my own energy and giving myself a morning boost much in the same way as a double shot of espresso.

SHAWN MEHTA, 22, member of the Belgian Watch Club, in Antwerp, Belgium

There isn’t one concise reason why any one man or woman should begin a watch collection. This isn’t like starting a 401(k) or taking your daily vitamins. Only begin one if you want to begin one — you really enjoy watches, want to learn more about watches or just enjoy the hunt. They can be really rewarding, honestly, from an emotional and social point of view, and occasionally, though not often, financially.

BENJAMIN CLYMER, founder and chief executive, the watch website Hodinkee, in New York

When you have a real passion for watchmaking, for the beauty and complexity of mechanical objects, you will get to a point where you will have this strong feeling to own the timepieces you always desired. One purchase leads automatically to the next one. Then I think you have to make the difference between accumulating objects and collecting. Collecting implies that there is common point between all your timepieces. It’s like a quest to perfection. All your timepieces must be connected by age, material, complication, brand or any other specificity.

ALEXANDER FRIEDMAN, 40, co-founder of the online magazine Watchonista and co-founder of the Watches Network, a communications agency dedicated to watch brands, in Lausanne, Switzerland

The classiest element marking a milestone in each man’s life is a watch. A simple graduation gift can escalate to becoming an acute passion. As a young boy, I was fascinated by the watches worn by my father and the unique mechanisms always had a positive impact on me. This infatuation has only amplified with time. This is the same impression watches leave most men with. Besides fixation and admiration, watches are a significant part of a great investment plan.

OMAR AL HAJ, 35, founder of the online site Homebazar, in Dubai

[MORE: Members of the RedBar watch clubs in New York and London offer their best tips for new collectors]

Depending on your age, your taste, your personal history, your profession and your budget, you will probably begin to feel drawn to one brand or type of watch. Start with what you enjoy. My advice: Don’t pay attention to trends. Follow your heart.

VANESSA CHICHA, 43, owner of the consulting company Iconeek, in Geneva

I would suggest you ﬁnd your comfort zone at ﬁrst (in terms of complication), whether it be a tourbillon, chronograph or a simple three-hand watch. Thereafter, I would research endlessly until I found something that ticks all the boxes. The categories that are most important to me are movement/ﬁnishing, wearability, aesthetics and the vision of the brand.

MR. MEHTA of the Belgian Watch Club

I love nothing more than the research and hunting period — where I try to find every piece of information on any given reference or example known to man. I do it through my own records that I’ve accumulated after 10 years of world travel for watches with Hodinkee, my network of friends, auction houses, and old books and magazines. There are any number of websites out there writing about watches, even more Instagram pages, and the first thing to know is not all “experts” are created equal.

MR. CLYMER of Hodinkee

Vintage watches can be a little perplexing at first. People throw around reference numbers that sound like they’re reciting a Fibonacci sequence and they debate minuscule details which sometimes aren’t even visible to the naked eye. Vintage watches are a challenging category in collectibles, and that’s precisely what attracts so many collectors. Start by gathering as much information about the watch you’re personally interested in. Learn about the manufacturer’s history, find out how many watches they produced, in which metals, with which dials. In other words, do your homework.

ARTHUR TOUCHOT, 29, head of digital and watch specialist, Phillips auction house, based in Geneva

It is good to follow your passion but we also have to consider the ongoing market. For example, why should we buy a pocket watch today, if these items totally lost value over the time?

MS. MONDANI of Mondani Web

Look for themes that interest you, whether it be a particular brand, complication or feature. Learn as much as you can about that initially, then look at brands that might have that as a focus. Personally, I have a soft spot for titanium watches, I like that they’re quite light (compared with steel) which makes them very comfortable on the wrist.

SEAN LI, 48, editorial and business development director, Blackbird Watch Manual website

There’s really no road map to this. What’s important is that you pursue what interests you. Not trends and what 20 other people around you are buying. Do your research, talk to others who share your interest, take your time and enjoy the process.

SUMIT NAG, 33, online editor for Revolution Media, in Singapore

To build your collection with confidence focus on authenticity, quality, rarity, provenance and pieces with accompanying documentation. Stay informed by consulting professionals and always try to improve your network. My advice: Taking your time means saving time.

MS. CHICHA of Iconeek

Depending on your budget, of course. I think your quest will have different stages over time. With patience you will find the exact watch you wish to add to your collection.

MR. FRIEDMAN of Watchonista

A safe at home for your daily pieces and one at the bank for the rest of your collection. You can also loan pieces to museums; it will be a good way to transmit your passion to other people. For me, it’s important to share — to share your passion, share your knowledge, share your love for watchmaking. From my point of view, if you leave all your pieces in the back of your safe, it’s a pity.

MR. GARDINETTI of the Fondation de la Haute Horlogerie

You can choose one or several solutions, such as having a personal safe, home security measures, a bank vault or free ports. Whatever your choice, make sure your watches are protected from water, humidity, dust and direct exposure to light. My advice: The best protection is discretion.

MS. CHICHA of Iconeek

Too often we hear stories of a watch being stolen from having been left out in the open. Even worse is when the watch is not insured. Adding watches to a homeowner’s policy is simple and in most cases not too costly; most insurers require just a certified appraisal from the dealer who sold the watch to you.

LIAM WEE TAY, 58, chairman of the online sale site WatchBox, in Hong Kong

You should insure your collection. Ask for documents with insurance values or contact an independent watch expert to create a portfolio of your collection with detailed pictures, descriptions and estimates. Then proceed with your insurance company.

MS. CHICHA of Iconeek

Ultimately, what I enjoy most about watch collecting is the emotional and intellectual rush I get from learning things that are not widely known and then the great reveal to my other collector friends. One of the great joys of collecting is really the people you will meet, and though there is always some mild competition among friends, the support from this group of people is really something very special and one that is not found in many other areas. Watch collecting is also a fun way to hone your critical mind and provides a nice vehicle to support international travel – above all else, it is a lot of fun. The minute it stops being fun, you should stop.

MR. CLYMER of Hodinkee

I used to keep and keep and keep. But maybe at this time of my life I would fancy some changes. Let’s upgrade!

MR. FRIEDMAN of Watchionista

Most collectors will buy a watch because A) they don’t have it B) they have one but in poorer condition or C) it’s part of a family or set that they are trying to complete. And then there are those who buy watches just because they can. They collect to keep. They aren’t so concerned with upgrading because they often start with the very best. Ultimately though, everyone is collecting to upgrade, because tastes change over time and new pieces become available. Every watch has its price, and sometimes that means starting over. One of the consignors from the Heuer Parade auction held last year sold most of his collection because he felt he had “done it.” He had spent almost a decade finding Heuer chronographs from a specific era, and once he had them, he needed a new challenge. He is still collecting watches today, but from other manufacturers.

MR. TOUCHOT of Phillips

Chances are the first 10 to 20 watches you end up buying will also be the first instances of watches that you flip. Collecting is a journey of learning after all. The more knowledge you amass, the more you discover about the world of watches and what you like about your watches. In turn, your collection evolves.

MR. NAG of Revolution Media

Personally, I feel what one does with each watch depends on its history and mechanism. A vintage watch with different complications hard to find is definitely meant to be kept. On the other hand, the latest watches in the market are eligible to be changed if you feel there are better ones in the market. The simple strategy of selling a watch to fund a better one is acceptable.

MR. AL HAJ of Homebazar

We are starting to see a resurgence in popularity of “contemporary vintage” pieces. By this, I mean watches from the 1980s-1990s. Pieces from this era that stand out to us are IWC Pilots watches, Jaeger-LeCoultre Calendars, previous generation Lange models. Furthermore, ultraexclusive brands like F.P. Journe will be very desirable moving forward. They have seriously low production numbers and have already begun captivating collectors around the world.

MR. TAY of WatchBox

Steel sport watches from Rolex continue to be a smart option for parking your money, with the added benefit of being able to wear them out on the weekends (take the newest Daytona, for example, the MSRP of this watch is $12,400!).

BLAKE BUETTNER, 34, director of watches, the e-commerce company StockX, in Detroit

It’s impossible to say which model will be the next big thing, and it’s very difficult to look past early Rolex Daytonas these days. However, it’s a hard and fast rule that vintage watches that are original and well preserved today will have enduring value. We will almost certainly see the value of the most sought-after watches continue to appreciate as new collectors enter this field of collectibles.

MR. TOUCHOT of Phillips

I am not sure if there is anything left to be collected; it seems to me that every possible item is already being collected by someone.

SABINE KEGEL, 56, international senior specialist and head of Christie’s Geneva Watch Department

Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• Why Trump might have trouble reining in Amazon.

• Public pension fund wants changes to Facebook’s board.

• Trump tweets Amazon does not pay enough taxes.

• Another FANG stock took a tumble.

• The Trump administration wants to further thwart sensitive Chinese investments.

The DealBook newsletter is taking a break for Good Friday. We’ll be back with you on Monday. Sign up for it here.

Amazon hasn’t responded to President Trump’s latest tweet about the company, and most likely won’t.

Mr. Trump’s criticisms, though, are largely mistaken. For a long time, Amazon did not pay state sales tax, but it does so now when it sells its own goods in states that collect it. It is the case, however, that in most states Amazon does not collect sales taxes on goods sold by third parties through its platform. As for the United States Postal Service, Amazon’s business appears to be giving a welcome lift to its package shipping revenue.

Still, Amazon cannot quietly hope that such criticism just fades away. Amazon’s rapid growth, immense bargaining power, eye-catching initiatives and estimated 44 percent share of U.S. e-commerce sales make the company vulnerable to accusations that it is too powerful.

But if the Trump administration pursues ways to curtail the company, it would meet sizable obstacles.

Amazon accounts for only 4 percent of all retail sales in the United States, a recent survey estimated. Its revenue is a third of Walmart’s and, even after its acquisition of Whole Foods, Amazon’s footing in the grocery business is still small.

All in all, it would be hard to show that Amazon is pushing prices higher for consumers.

Amazon also has a loyal customer base — it has an estimated 90 million Prime members — and the public views it relatively favorably. When the Department of Justice’s antitrust lawyers went after the proposed merger of Time Warner and AT&T, it was not targeting companies that were particularly popular with the public.

Still, some Amazon critics see a possible, though small, opening. In theory, an antitrust case could focus on the firms that supply Amazon with goods, according to Christopher L. Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. If a company consistently uses its power to demand a good from suppliers at too low a price, the public could still get hurt. That’s because the supply of the good could decline, its quality degrade, and there may be less innovation in the sector that produces the good, Mr. Sagers said.

But anyone bringing that against Amazon would have to explain why Walmart would not be a target, too.

— Peter Eavis

The investment adviser to New York City’s pension funds is calling for changes to Facebook’s board to address the fallout from Cambridge Analytica’s improper harvesting of information from 50 million users of the social network.

New York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, wrote in a letter addressed to Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, an independent director at Facebook and the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation:

New York City’s pension funds, which have more than $193 billion in assets under management, own $895 million of Facebook’s shares, according to the letter. Even with the recent tumble in its shares, Facebook is valued at more than $450 billion.

In his letter, Mr. Stringer calls on Facebook’s independent directors to take four steps to help restore investor confidence.

Here are the proposed changes:

1) Add at least three new independent directors to improve the board’s ability to oversee the evolving risks Facebook faces.

2) Name an independent director as chairman, allowing Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive and chairman, to focus on running the company.

3) Create a committee of independent directors to oversee the company’s data privacy policies and risks.

4) Institute a clawback policy so that the board can “recoup executive pay in the event of violations of law, regulation or company policy.”

President Trump spoke out against Amazon on Thursday, saying that the online behemoth does not pay enough taxes and uses the United States postal system “as their Delivery Boy.”

The president’s commentary, made in a Twitter post, comes amid reports that Mr. Trump has expressed an interest in reining in the e-commerce business.

Amazon and the company’s founder, Jeff Bezos, are among Mr. Trump’s regular Twitter targets. In December, Mr. Trump questioned whether the United States Post Office charges Amazon enough for package deliveries. And in August, Mr. Trump said Amazon hurts taxpaying businesses.

Amazon, however, does pay taxes — $412 million in 2016, for instance, according to the company’s report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Axios reported on Wednesday that Mr. Trump has wondered aloud whether Amazon could be vulnerable to antitrust or competition laws.

Amazon shares fell more than 7 percent following that Axios article but recovered some of those losses after a White House official told Reuters that the company faced no particular policy changes. But the administration is always looking at its options, the official added. The stock closed down 4.4 percent Wednesday.

Shares were down nearly 2 percent in early trading.

Should shareholders worry? The GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives told Bloomberg that this regulatory threat was unlikely to change Amazon’s business model, but it was still “the last thing nervous tech investors wanted to see today.”

Retailers, at least, already have some reason to be cheerful.

And Amazon has another target market for expansion: housekeeping.

Corporate American will start reporting first-quarter results in less than two weeks, and earnings are expected to be big.

Analysts estimate that profits at companies in the S.&P. 500 grew 17.3 percent this quarter, according to FactSet. If the forecasts prove accurate that would be highest earnings growth rate since the first quarter of 2011.

Perhaps most surprising, is that analysts have grown more optimistic on corporate earnings as the quarter progressed. The earnings forecast for the index rose 5.4 percent from the start of the quarter to the end. Typically, analysts lower their expectations as the quarter progresses. On average, the profit estimates for the index fall 3.7 percent from the start of the quarter to the end.

But there are reasons for investors to temper their enthusiasm. Analysts have not been as optimistic about the abilities of companies to increase sales. Revenue is expected to have grown 7.3 percent in the first quarter, up from a 7 percent rate at the start of the quarter.

That suggests analysts are not raising estimates because of increased sales. So why are they? Taxes. And the impact tax reform will have on bottom lines should moderate in the coming quarters.

That may already be happening. BofA Merrill Lynch’s earnings revision ratio for the S.&P. 500 fell in March for the first time in three months. Of course, the pullback comes after the ratio hits the highest level on record in February, but it does suggest that earnings lift from tax reform has begun to wane.

Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into their shares with abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of that rally are being tested.

Exhibit A: Facebook, down 20 percent from its recent high.

Exhibit B: Nvidia, off 12 percent from its recent high.

Exhibit C: Tesla, not a tech stock but in the FANG+ index.

Concerns about Tesla’s ability to fund itself can also be seen in the trading of its debt.

The WSJ’s Charley Grant explains:

Peter Eavis notes that the latest problems for tech giants have raised deeper doubts:

Barclays said on Thursday that it agreed to pay $2 billion to settle a lawsuit by United States authorities that accused the British bank of fraudulently misleading the public in the sale of tens of billions of dollars in securities backed by home mortgages.

The Justice Department sued the bank in December 2016 after the two sides failed to reach a settlement despite months of talks. The settlement is the latest by a European lender related to residential mortgage-backed securities sold ahead of the financial crisis and follows agreements reached by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in late 2016.

“I am pleased that we have been able to reach a fair and proportionate settlement with the Department of Justice,” James E. Staley, the Barclays chief executive, said in a news release. “It has been a priority for this management team from the start to resolve these historic issues in a timely and appropriate manner wherever possible.”

Two former Barclays executives who were sued along with the bank also have reached settlements, agreeing to pay a combined $2 million, the Justice Department said in a news release.

Their lawyers separately said the government’s claims were baseless and each agreed to settle the case without admitting wrongdoing.

- Chad Bray

Tammy Kiely is leaving Goldman Sachs to join Morgan Stanley as global head of semiconductor and auto technology investment banking, according to an internal memo seen by The New York Times.

Ms. Kiely, who will be based in Menlo Park, Calif., joined Goldman in 1999 and had headed its semiconductor investment banking team since 2006, becoming a partner in 2014. Before Goldman, she worked at KPMG as a certified public accountant in its information, communications and entertainment practice.

She has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the California Polytechnic State University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.

Following her arrival, Mark Edelstone will become chairman of global semiconductor investment banking at Morgan Stanley.

The move comes amid a wave of dealmaking among chip makers the past few years.

- Chad Bray

Revolving door

• Equifax has a new C.E.O.: the former G.E. executive Mark Begor. (NYT)

• Lior Ron, who helped found the self-driving truck company Otto, has left Uber, which acquired it. (NYT)

• A.G. Gangadhar has left G.M.’s self-driving car company, Cruise, after six months as chief technology officer. (Recode)

The Advertising Research Foundation gave Cambridge Analytica an award last year. Amid the scandal over Facebook data, it’s thinking again.

But the group’s executive, Scott McDonald, said that advertisers cared more about whether the data tech companies offered was accurate than whether they should have collected it.

Facebook, for its part, promised yesterday to stop advertisers targeting ads using data from third-party brokers, and to put its user privacy settings in one place, rather than about 20. It’s also rethinking privacy safeguards for forthcoming devices, The Information says.

Tim Cook of Apple is calling for privacy regulation: “To me, it’s creepy when I look at something and all of a sudden it’s chasing me all across the web.”

And our Kevin Roose considers how to save social media: Facebook could become more of a collective enterprise, social networks could become more like email or users could put an expiry date on information.

The tech flyaround

• Expect more deals from SoftBank’s Vision Fund. It wants to be the biggest shareholder in 100 tech companies, then consolidate them. It’s nearing a deal for a stake in Swiss Re, too.

• The German automakers BMW and Daimler have teamed up to fight Silicon Valley. (NYT)

• A Google early-stage venture fund is leading a $6 million investment in a company building software to let cars be driven remotely (by humans). (Bloomberg)

• Boeing said it had been hit by WannaCry, the malware that struck in 70 countries last year. (NYT)

• Apple facies several lawsuits from consumers for slowing older iPhones to extend battery life. (WSJ)

• Warner Music bought Sodatone, a start-up that promises to spot hits early using machine learning. (FT)

• How 5G will redraw the map of the wireless industry. (WSJ)

While finalizing its plans for trade restrictions, the Trump administration is moving ahead with a more targeted strike against Chinese investment in sensitive American technology.

But the Treasury Department faces a challenge if, as planned, it uses the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act.

“Just defining what percentage of equity would classify a firm as ‘state-owned’ is difficult, as is the definition of which technologies should be off limits,” the WSJ’s Bob Davis writes. “In some cases, U.S. firms could rely on Chinese ones for innovation, especially in manufacturing.”

The political flyaround

• A lawsuit arguing that President Trump’s continued business interests violate the Constitution has passed its first test. (NYT)

• Republicans’ plan for a second tax cut before the midterm elections has yet to attract much financial support from business. (WaPo)

• Treasury bonds remain attractive to investors, but Moody’s argues that the U.S. may have less flexibility for future borrowing. (WSJ)

• An infrastructure bill passed before the midterms? Trump administration officials are trying to lower expectations. (WSJ)

• Mr. Trump declared the Second Amendment would “never be repealed,” in response to a former Supreme Court justice’s NYT Op-Ed. (NYT)

Four women sought police protection against Douglas E. Greenberg, one of Morgan Stanley’s top financial advisers.

Executives at the bank knew about his behavior, former employees said, but no action was taken until the NYT raised the issue this week.

The bank’s wealth-management division accounts for nearly half Morgan Stanley’s revenue and is seen as its prime source of future profits.

With an aging and declining population in Japan, companies have to look elsewhere to grow. Takeda Pharmaceuticals’ potential bid for Shire could be one of the largest acquisitions ever of a Western company by a Japanese buyer.

Critics’ corner: It’s not really about cost savings, argues Bloomberg Gadfly’s Chris Hughes: “In reality, the attraction is that Shire is cheap and vulnerable — something other bidders will see.” And the FT’s Lex would welcome that: “There are better potential matches.”

 AT&T-Time Warner trial update: The head of Turner broadcasting said that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through. The judge overseeing the case told the parties to speed up their presentation. And if the deal isn’t completed by Apr. 22, it may cost AT&T  up to $1.1 billion in special redemptions.

The deals flyaround

• Concho Resources will buy RSP Permian for $9.5 billion, creating a shale-oil colossus and adding to the rush to produce more oil. (NYT)

• Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge, unnamed sources said. (Bloomberg)

• Vivendi and Elliott Management are tussling over Telecom Italia. (FT)

• Stella McCartney has agreed to buy Kering out of her fashion brand, regaining full control. (NYT)

• CME Group has offered to buy NEX Group, which operates bond-trading platforms, for $5.4 billion. (WSJ)

• The defense contractor CACI International has withdraw its bid for CSRA, which offers information technology services to government agencies and now looks likely to be acquired by General Dynamics. (WaPo)

• Silver Lake is taking a $500 million stake in the online personal finance company Credit Karma. (WSJ)

• The technology company DocuSign, not yet profitable, has filed for an I.P.O. (WSJ)

• Anbang, the insurer seized by the Chinese government, is continuing to offer the small-investor products that fueled its growth. (NYT)

• The economics of home buying are getting interesting, with higher mortgage rates, tax changes and a supply-demand imbalance. (NYT)

• Wells Fargo is taking a measured approach to the gun debate, its chief executive, Tim Sloan, said — but does not believe a bank can be an “arbiter of what an American can buy.” (Charlotte Observer)

• Bumble is suing Match Group, which owns Tinder, accusing it of stealing trade secrets and interfering in Bumble’s business. (Recode)

• Deutsche Bank is considering more cuts in its investment bank, unnamed sources say, while its chief executive, John Cryan, has insisted that he’s staying. (Bloomberg)

• The Wing, a members’ club for women, is being investigated by New York authorities for discrimination. (NYT)

• The C.F.T.C. chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, has become a Twitter star — complete with a nickname, “Cryptodad” — over his digital currency views. (Bloomberg)

• Investors who lost money on the blood-testing firm Theranos may end up fighting the S.E.C. over its assets. (Bloomberg)

Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.

You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

On Aug. 25, 2015, a Swiss postal inspector reached into the river of 300,000 parcels that pour into that nation every day and, for a routine inspection, plucked out two packages arriving from Arizona. Inspectors unwrapped them and found serried rows of bottles.

The bottles were suspected of containing performance-enhancing drugs, so they were shipped to an antidoping laboratory for testing. Chemists discovered three synthetic compounds that are illicit gold for cheating athletes. One sped the healing of tendons and ligaments. Another helped build muscle mass. A third stimulated the body to burn fat.

The Swiss authorities notified the organization in the United States that investigates sports doping, the United States Anti-Doping Agency, and shared the return-address sticker. The packages were shipped by someone named Thomas Mann.

His name drew puzzled shrugs from Usada investigators. That name had never crossed their radar, and they could not find a home listing for someone with that name in their database in Arizona or anywhere else.

The name was then stored in the organization’s computer system and largely forgotten, until it resurfaced in a different context several months later, triggering an intense pursuit of Thomas Mann and an aggressive investigation of his enterprise that involved federal law enforcement as well as antidoping officials.

The existence of the investigation and its extraordinary findings have not been previously reported.

Investigators believe what they uncovered was a trafficker who sat at the center of one of the broadest sports doping networks in American history, with tendrils that extended to Europe and Asia. In one year, he shipped parcels containing performance-enhancing drugs to more than 8,000 people, they determined. His substance of choice was peptides, a newly popular (though banned) substance among athletes that is essentially a building block for protein.

His clientele included a dozen pro football players and coaches; pro baseball players and a major league batting coach; and top track and field athletes. There were Olympians and potential Olympians, from discus throwers to sprinters to pole-vaulters to weight lifters to wrestlers.

Investigators assembled what they considered a hay pile of incriminating evidence: surveillance video of the man making the shipments; invoices and payment receipts; email messages; and testimony from several athletes who purchased drugs from him that corroborated the nature of his business.

Yet the dealer has not faced criminal charges. He distributed drugs that inhabit a hazy gray zone. Prosecutors generally treat the possession of peptides, which are illegal without a medical prescription, as a misdemeanor.

Investigators also determined something else: The man’s name was not Thomas Mann. His real name was Michael A. Moorcones, and he had left the faintest of footprints. Born in Virginia, he was a lawyer with no law office, a distributor of sports drugs with no formal training as a pharmacist.

I set out to find Moorcones. I drove 30 miles south of Phoenix to Queen Creek, Ariz., where suburbs expire in sun-blasted desert and the Superstition Mountains rise gray and jagged. I rang a doorbell in a subdivision. A balding, middle-aged man opened the door.

Michael Moorcones?

He nodded. “Yes?”

I’m a reporter, I told him, and athletes tell me they purchased your performance-enhancing drugs. They say your substances help them out-train and outperform athletes who compete clean.

Can we talk?

Moorcones offered a hint of a chuckle. “I wouldn’t be interested in ever talking to anybody about anything. O.K.?”

He moved to close the door.

In late December 2015, about four months after the Swiss authorities had flagged the shipments from Thomas Mann, Al Jazeera released an explosive documentary called “The Dark Side: Secrets of the Sports Dopers.” A retired professional hurdler from Britain had worked with the news organization to penetrate the world of illicit sports doping while carrying a hidden camera.

An intriguing name was tucked into the Al Jazeera documentary. Underground chemists spoke with reverence of a Svengali who produced and sold them high-quality sports drugs. His name was Thomas Mann.

A chemist explained in the documentary how fastidious he had to be when ordering performance-enhancing drugs from Mann: “If you even use the wrong language with him, saying, ‘Oh, I’m going to use this,’ right away, boom, you’d be kicked off.”

Investigators pulled at Thomas Mann’s internet veil and found that he was using an alias, a name perhaps borrowed from the famous German novelist. He called his business Authentiquevie (French for “authentic life”); another forum, DatBTrue, provided a menu of his peptides and hormones, accompanied by detailed explanations of each drug. Four-star customer testimonials piled up.

“Tom carries it and is the only guy I trust to deliver actual peptides and not useless vials,” read one.

His business model, according to investigators, was clever. They believe he operated the DatBTrue forum, a go-to place for savvy discussion of peptides. When an athlete on the forum would inquire about obtaining peptides, Moorcones, using a different name, would steer the athlete to Thomas Mann. So he was sending potential customers to himself.

Moorcones, in the guise of Thomas Mann, or Tom Mann, would then rigorously vet the customers to make sure they were who they claimed to be and would be trustworthy clients.

In the one year that Moorcones was under investigation, he had $1 million in sales.

Moorcones’s business was a raging river in a much larger doping ecosystem. The demand for performance-enhancing drugs extends to every corner of professional and amateur sports, and well beyond. Name any sport, and chances are good that someone playing it has been caught doping in the past few months.

Then there are wealthy users who flock to anti-aging medical clinics in search of youthful elixirs. They find doctors who will prescribe peptides and human growth hormone. The patients take all of these in hopes of adding muscle mass, smoothing wrinkles and reclaiming body definition and sexual vitality.

Moorcones served both ends of this market, from athletes to the aging. All came to his online forum in search of the latest wonder drug.

Moorcones purported that his products were intended for lab use only. In a 2014 email, he wrote: “I have the following batches available for in vitro purposes only. Peptides: Modified GRF (1-29) (2mg) @ $35/vial; $31/10 vials.” But a cursory reading of his customers’ online comments indicated that they were not being used that way.

Dr. Todd B. Nippoldt, an endocrinologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., spoke to the scientific and health consequences of unregulated and illegal use.

“These people are carrying out quite sophisticated experiments on themselves at doses that far exceed anything in a lab,” Nippoldt said. “It’s quite remarkable and dangerous.”

The original wonder drug of sports doping was steroids, and it remains the gold standard for athletic cheaters. There is nothing, doctors and athletes say, quite like the muscle-firing boost provided by synthetic testosterone.

Steroid use peaked in the 1980s and 1990s, and records set during that era were Popeye-like. Olympic records usually fall every few Games; some records set during the steroid era have stood untouched for decades. This is no less true of Major League Baseball, where swollen sluggers made a mockery of the record books in recent decades.

Then testing for steroids improved and some sports toughened their rules against doping. Steroids became a riskier play. But that did not stop cheating. Block one back alley, and sophisticated chemists scurry down another. The aim, always, is to find ways to build muscle mass, burn fat, aid recovery and increase the ability of the body to expand its aerobic capacity. This underground world soon turned its eyes toward human growth hormones and peptides, strings of amino acids and the building blocks of proteins.

Some peptides trigger reactions in the body similar to those of anabolic steroids. Others, known as secretagogues, stimulate the human pituitary gland to release excess growth hormone. A well-regarded scientific study in Australia found that growth hormone helped sprinters improve their times by 4 percent. As a typical 100-meter race is won or lost by hundredths of a second, a 4 percent improvement would represent a considerable advantage.

The Al Jazeera documentary underlined that peptides had become a prime ingredient in a cheater’s performance cocktail. The documentary caught Taylor Teagarden, a major league catcher, saying on hidden camera that he had taken peptides and never been caught. (Major League Baseball remedied that oversight and suspended Teagarden for 80 games a few months after the documentary was released.)

Dr. Robert Salvatori, an expert on growth hormone at Johns Hopkins, noted that athletes were quite shrewd about the effects that drugs have on their bodies. History demonstrates that they often recognize the performance-boosting power before the medical community does.

“It took scientists until 1996 to prove the muscle-boosting powers of steroids — which athletes knew years earlier,” he said. “We are running way behind.”

Seeking to learn more about the latest tactics in sports doping, I went to Phoenix to meet with Cody Bidlow, a former professional sprinter and personal coach. A year ago, the United States Anti-Doping Agency discovered that Bidlow had ordered peptides from Moorcones’s website. He received a four-year suspension.

A lean and muscular fellow, Bidlow described for me how he came to use peptides. He had been a sprinter at Grand Canyon University in 2015 when he sustained a hamstring injury. He was no potential Olympian. He simply wanted to run a few more races, so he asked around at elite gyms for a quick doping fix.

“I had always been around people who used peptides and H.G.H.,” he said, although he declined to name names. “It sounded like peptides are super-effective.”

He wrote down the names of suppliers. He found a lot of fast talkers who excited no trust. (The head of Switzerland’s antidoping organization told me that his agency’s tests have shown that 80 percent of the peptides advertised on the web are adulterated or outright fakes.)

Then Bidlow learned of Thomas Mann’s site, which was refreshingly professional. And Mann’s peptides were real. “This wasn’t ‘bro science’; he is a pure brainiac,” Bidlow said. “He would post scientific studies breaking down how a peptide worked.”

We sat in a coffee shop as Bidlow gave me a tutorial on peptides. He described which worked, which were difficult to detect and which were not worth the trouble. He said coaches and athletes — particularly sprinters — were enamored of something called insulin-like growth factor-1, known as IGF-1. It promotes healing and builds muscle in a fashion similar to anabolic steroids. IGF-1 occurs naturally in the body, and antidoping tests struggle to distinguish the natural from the synthetic.

No sprinter or baseball player has ever tested positive for IGF-1. Do not take that to mean no sprinter or baseball player has ever used it; they just haven’t been caught.

The antidoping world has occasional successes. In 2015 and 2016, Dodgers pitcher Josh Ravin, Indians outfielder Marlon Byrd and Braves pitcher Andrew McKirahan tested positive for peptides. Major League Baseball suspended all of them.

But the case of the retired baseball star Alex Rodriguez is more typical. Anthony Bosch, who said he supplied Rodriguez with drugs, told “60 Minutes” that his witch’s brew included peptides. Rodriguez was suspended by baseball, but not because he failed a drug test. The league connected him to doping through an investigation it started only after a news report broke the story of Bosch’s company, Biogenesis.

Faced with the limits of testing technology, antidoping officials and investigators have asked the Food and Drug Administration and Congress to tighten laws and crack down on peptides and growth hormone.

For Drug Enforcement Administration officials, the problem lies with the weak wording of the laws that currently govern peptides.

“If I catch you with heroin, it’s a controlled substance and illegal — that’s easy,” said Douglas W. Coleman, the special agent in charge of the D.E.A.’s Phoenix Division. “If I find human growth hormone, I have to build a case to show that it’s significantly outside what it can be prescribed for.

“Peptides are more difficult still. There’s really no legal foothold.”

The F.D.A. holds clearer regulatory authority; its officials could write tougher regulatory language and crack down on peptides and growth hormone. But agency investigators have paid scant attention to this black market. I asked, repeatedly and over many weeks, to speak with an F.D.A. official about the regulation of peptides and growth hormone.

In the end, an agency spokeswoman sent a boilerplate email.

“The F.D.A. takes seriously its mission to protect the health of the American public,” wrote the spokeswoman, Theresa Eisenman. “There are many complex factors involved in how cases involving the sale or distribution of illegal products are investigated and ultimately prosecuted.”

Her email cited three successful peptide prosecutions involving four people during the past three years. Each of the offenders received a light punishment.

Seeking a more detailed explanation, I called a former top F.D.A. official. He spoke on condition of anonymity, as he remains involved with these issues in the private sector. He described the F.D.A.’s stance as defensible. It has a small staff of about 200 agents, and they focus on plagues like tainted and counterfeit drugs, which endanger thousands of unsuspecting customers. The societal impact of peptides and growth hormone is far less severe, clearly.

The former official described the world of illicit peptide and hormones as caveat emptor — buyer beware. “If rich patients and athletes are going to anti-aging clinics or the web in search of unregistered drugs, they know the risk,” he said.

The decision to downgrade prosecutions has all but decriminalized the mass distribution and use of powerful and untested drugs for athletes.

That deeply frustrates those who are trying to stamp out chemical cheating by athletes. Jeff Novitzky once served as a top investigator for the Food and Drug Administration, and he was the lead investigator in the Bay Area Laboratory Co-operative case, in which he helped uncover doping by some of the biggest names in American sports.

Novitzky now is a senior official with Ultimate Fighting Championship, the mixed-martial arts circuit. He is charged with cleaning up that sport, and sees governmental foot-dragging everywhere he looks.

“For officials to complain that these are difficult, high-pressure prosecutions is a cowardly excuse,” Novitzky said. “The ease with which athletes, teenagers, anyone, can purchase and buy these powerful hormonal substances is mind-boggling.”

Investigators discovered that Moorcones was shipping his products from a U.P.S. store wedged between a supermarket and real estate office on the suburban frontier of Queen Creek. Video surveillance revealed that Moorcones’s septuagenarian parents often went with him to mail his parcels.

Eventually investigators obtained Moorcones’s customer list of more than 8,000 names. It was a rich hunting ground. Investigators found the names of pro athletes and forwarded the information to their leagues.

Major League Baseball ended up suspending two minor leaguers. The National Football League was another matter. The Al Jazeera documentary had named six players as likely dopers, and the N.F.L. penalized not a single one. The Moorcones investigation yielded more names, which were shared with the league. The N.F.L. has penalized none of the players.

Track and field athletes, weight lifters and wrestlers are another matter. The United States Anti-Doping Agency has jurisdiction over these sports and can punish athletes who violate doping protocols.

Usada handed down a raft of penalties to Moorcones’s customers. Jason Young, a 35-year-old discus thrower and coach from Lubbock, Tex., who competed in the 2012 Summer Olympics, was suspended, as was Nick Mossberg, a pole-vaulter who competed at the 2012 United States Olympic trials and planned to try again in 2016. The investigation also netted a wrestler from Colorado and a weight lifter who graduated from M.I.T.

All acknowledged ordering peptides from Tom Mann. None of these athletes had tested positive.

Bidlow and Mossberg, the pole-vaulter, had worked and trained at Altis, an elite athletic training campus in Phoenix. Numerous Olympic athletes train there under the tutelage of coaches with global reputations.

I called the recruiting director at Altis, Andreas Behm, who also coaches the sprinters and hurdlers. Bidlow and Mossberg, he said, had simply “gone rogue.” The elite training center, he insisted, had no larger problem with doping.

The investigation of Moorcones stalled last year. The United States attorney in Phoenix had taken a hard look and given up because a federal agency — the F.D.A. or the D.E.A. — was not willing to bring a case. His distribution of peptides, they apparently decided, was not worth prosecuting. A lawyer for Moorcones demanded immunity for his client.

Moorcones shut down his website and claimed online that he was ill. Worried customers speculated that his own drugs had sickened him. “I feel for the guy,” one customer wrote. “The community of illegal experimental medicine is losing a true hero.”

Other clients speculated correctly that Mann was under investigation; they began to worry that their names had fallen into the hands of law enforcement. They were correct.

Moorcones politely bid everyone goodbye. “I’ve enjoyed serving everyone through the years,” he wrote on his Authentiquevie site.

Within months, investigators noticed that one of Moorcones’s prominent, high-volume customers had taken his business to a dealer in Florida, where anti-aging clinics peddling peptides and hormones grow like sugar cane. Other clients turned to an oft-investigated but still active peptide trafficker in Louisiana.

There was still much investigators did not understand about Moorcones’s operation. He distributed such massive volumes of illicit substances, but they were never able to determine the source of the drugs. Was he purchasing them from somewhere and reselling to athletes, or was he somehow manufacturing them himself? And were his parents aware of what they were shipping?

Back on the edge of the desert in Arizona, I persuaded Moorcones to keep the door open another minute or two. “People all have their own agenda,” he told me.

I allowed that this might be true. Any story grows more complicated when you hear both sides, I said. Why not tell me yours?

He smiled faintly. “I wouldn’t be the person to give it to you anyway. Thank you.”

This time, Moorcones shut the door.

Many news organizations, including our own, came under criticism from some readers last week for coverage of the bombings in and near Austin, Tex. Some said The Times’s initial reporting on the suspect, Mark Conditt, treated him too lightly or did too much to humanize him because he was white and Christian.

We invited readers to share with us their questions or comments on the reporting. We heard from about 2,000 readers. We’re running a selection of their questions with some responses from our journalists below. The questions have been condensed and edited for clarity.

Please see this as the start of a conversation. We welcome you to leave additional remarks in the comments section of this article.

Marc Lacey, National Editor: The Times typically follows the lead of law enforcement for when to label a particular crime as terrorism, given that it has a specific legal definition.

As we’ve seen, law enforcement does not always apply the formal term terrorism to acts of mass violence.

In the San Bernardino, Calif., shooting that killed 14 people, law enforcement officials called Tashfeen Malik and Syed Rizwan Farook terrorists. The same was true in Orlando, Fla., where Omar Mateen killed 49 people at a nightclub.

But in Charleston, S.C., where Dylann Roof murdered nine African-Americans at a historically black church, law enforcement did not label him a terrorist. The same was true in Las Vegas, where Stephen Paddock killed 58 people at a concert.

Under the law, terrorism is a violent, criminal act intended to intimidate civilians and governments for an ideological, political or religious purpose. In this case, we have yet to see evidence that the attacks in Texas were politically motivated, though certainly there has been suspicion that there was racial animus because the first two victims were African-American.

Anne Barnard, Beirut Bureau Chief: The words “terrorist” and “terrorism” are problematic because there is no universal consensus on what they mean. Thus, the decision to label an attack or attacker “terrorist” is almost always at least partly a political judgment.

Contradictions and debates abound over which groups governments list as terrorist and which they don’t. Some examples: The United States’ main partner against the Islamic State in Syria is a Kurdish militia listed as terrorist by a critical NATO ally, Turkey. Hezbollah, which is listed as a terrorist group by the United States government, is also a political party represented in Lebanon’s Parliament. And some groups argue that when a government deliberately bombs civilians, that too should be called terrorism.

It strikes me that in media coverage in general, “terrorism” is often used as if it were a synonym for “Islamist extremist violence.” That grates on me: Terrorism — whatever your working definition is — is a method, not an ideology. It’s a method that could be used, and has been used in history, to further a wide spectrum of different ideologies.

For these reasons, I try to avoid using the terms terrorist and terrorism at all, unless they are inside quotation marks or refer to a government’s decision to place a group on its designated terrorist list.

During all these years of wrestling with how to cover violence, I have found it more precise and informative to simply describe exactly what the attack was — how it was done, how many people it killed, whether there is a known or suspected motive — rather than label it terrorist or not. What’s most important is what crime was committed and what its impact was.

Marc Lacey, National Editor: I agree with you that, at the age of 17, Draylen Mason was a child, a teenager, one who had a promising future as a musician, as we noted here. There were two instances in which we referred to him as a man. Both were later updated. I appreciate your raising this issue.

Marc Lacey, National Editor: I agree with readers on this point — that the only victims in this story are the ones Mark Conditt killed and injured. He is not a victim.

After such events, we journalists write profiles of the perpetrators of such attacks as we try to understand their backgrounds and what may have motivated them. Here’s one such piece we did on Omar Mateen and another on Dylann Roof.

We wrote of Micah Johnson, who killed five police officers and wounded seven others in Dallas in 2016: “There was a time when he was known as a well-mannered young man — a regular at his church and a pleasant presence on a tree-lined, suburban, multicultural street in a neighborhood called Camelot. He grew up to serve his country in Afghanistan.” He was African-American.

When it comes to Mark Conditt, we’ll continue reporting on what motivated these awful acts and we’ll share what we find. I have not a twinge of sympathy for him, and readers are right that our coverage should not leave the impression he was victimized.

Cynthia Collins, Social Media Editor: As a practice, we use Twitter to highlight new details as they emerge on stories that are continuing to develop.

People had been actively seeking updates on the Austin investigation. Our article had just been updated to include interviews with the suspect’s neighbors. We tweeted quotes from one of these interviews to share another element of our emerging profile of the suspect.

We continued to provide additional updates over the next few hours to this tweet in an effort to provide more context.

However, we quickly heard from disappointed readers who believed we painted an overly sympathetic picture of the suspect in this tweet. I share this belief.

We probably shouldn’t have published a tweet describing how the suspect’s neighbors and peers viewed him without also providing the immediate and necessary contrast that he is suspected of killing Anthony Stephan House and Draylen Mason, and critically injuring others.

Anne Barnard, Beirut Bureau Chief: This too has its echo in the Middle East. We do try our best to delve into the stories, perspectives and contexts of both victims and perpetrators. It’s not always possible, because of access issues. But at the same time, in the media in general there is a dynamic in which the more bombings happen in a place, the more they come to seem routine and not newsworthy, a thing that “just happens over there” (unless that place is the United States or Europe). This distorts the fact that the vast majority of victims of Islamist extremist violence are Muslims.

The war in Syria now gets such little attention that people in the region often ask: Does the West think it’s O.K. for us to go through this? Do we not count as full humans?

After a spate of bombings in mostly Muslim countries around the world, I talked with Michel Kilo, a Syrian dissident, in Paris. He was leaning wearily over his coffee at a Left Bank cafe, wondering: Where was the global outrage?

Where was the outpouring that came after the same terrorist groups unleashed horror in Brussels and in Paris? In a supposedly globalized world, do nonwhites, non-Christians and non-Westerners count as fully human?

I believe one of our jobs as journalists is to demonstrate the common humanity of people whose lives may on the surface look very different from one another, to approach every human being as an individual and to treat every life as equally valuable and interesting. It’s an ideal that we can’t always live up to, but we must work toward especially as we attempt to reach an expanding and increasingly diverse global audience.

Marc Lacey, National Editor: We published information on the victims in Austin as soon as we gathered it. The correspondents assigned to this story went more than once to the victims’ families to try to tell more complete stories about them.

In each case, the families were too traumatized, understandably, to let us in. We wrote what we could from the sidelines. We remain committed to pursuing this, because the story of such a loss is never over. Here is one piece on those who died.

Marc Lacey, National Editor: With an event of this magnitude, with consequences so horrific, The Times made the decision to give four correspondents in Austin and four others in New York one assignment: Find out anything possible about this perpetrator and help us understand how he could have committed these terrible acts.

We fanned out through his neighborhood, school, worksite and anywhere else we could identify, trying to talk to anyone we could find who knew him. We published everything we learned, as we learned it. A story that was sketchy at first was expanded as we went along, filling in new details as we learned them.

We’re still working to understand this perpetrator, and as we learn more, we’ll pass it along. I can assure you that there is no effort underway to portray him as anything other than what he is, a murderer.

Crista Chapman, National Photo Editor: The photo of the suspect that we published was the only one that was confirmed at the time by the wire services that we subscribe to. We were unable to independently confirm other photos that allegedly showed Mark Conditt holding an assault rifle, including the photo referenced by the reader.

There were also no police mug shots available of Mr. Conditt because he had not previously been arrested.

We did subsequently publish surveillance video screenshots of Mr. Conditt at the FedEx location when the photos were made available.

Carolyn Ryan, Assistant Managing Editor: We have aggressively pushed to recruit more people of color, and last year, more than a third of our newsroom hires were people of color, and 60 percent were women. We have also introduced changes to our interview and hiring process to make sure we are selecting people from a diverse pool of candidates and using an interview process that has been developed to eliminate bias.

We’ve also expanded our outreach to underrepresented groups, partnering with organizations dedicated to diversity in technology (e.g. Code2040), journalism (e.g. National Association of Black Journalists) and media (e.g. The Emma Bowen Foundation). And every year, we run a Student Journalism Institute that provides training for diverse groups of college students interested in pursuing a career in journalism.

Anne Barnard, Beirut Bureau Chief: As a foreign correspondent in the Middle East, I see firsthand how important it is that The Times continue to diversify its reporting and editing staff. We need to reflect not only the makeup of our core audience in the United States but also the communities we cover by including more people with the appropriate language skills and cultural literacy.

This is important for the accuracy, fairness and richness of our journalism. The same is true of the need to diversify people in the most powerful, decision-making positions at The Times.

Hanna Ingber, Reader Center’s Editorial Director: Thank you for your comment. I see how it came across that way and do understand where you’re coming from.

We invited readers to submit questions and comments because we want to be more transparent, and we believe it’s important to have an open conversation with our readers about these issues. We are listening to our readers’ feedback and concerns, and we want our audience to know that.

In responding to the reader submissions, our journalists focused on questions related to our Austin coverage. But many of our readers posed important and thoughtful questions that went far beyond the Austin story. Questions touched on coverage of past news events by The Times, media coverage from various news organizations and even racial and religious discrimination in society as a whole. 

While we don’t have answers for many of these questions, they are worth all of us thinking about and keeping in our mind going forward. Here is a selection.

It’s almost nonexistent for news media to use flattering images of people of color in crime reporting, even if that person is innocent or the victim. — R. A. Rodriguez

The coverage is ABSOLUTELY different for White Christian attackers. Had the Austin terrorist been Muslim, there would have been national hysteria. It’s a double standard and must be called out every time. — Hesham Hassaballa, Chicago

Trayvon Martin was murdered by an over-excited wannabe security guard because he was black and walking through the neighborhood, but somehow the NYT had to tell us all that he’d had trouble at school for pot. The photos of him that were posted weren’t the smiling, friendly sort, like the one posted of Mark Conditt, but was of him in a hoodie, trying to look tough. — Laura Kenney, Traverse City, Mich.

You literally have harder hitting profiles of black murder victims than of white Christian serial killers. — Dylan Brady, Eugene, Ore.

I often see coverage of violent criminals who are Muslim include reactions from the leader or members of their religious community. It is not often asked of Christian faith leaders how the sins of their congregant reflect on the congregation or Christians at large. — Angelo M. Pinto, Audubon, N.J.

Whenever any sort of mass murder is perpetuated by someone from the “other” category, the entire community is dragged onto the public forum with only one expectation — own it and repent.— Nish Patel, Boston

Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching.

• Are we witnessing the end of the tech mania?

• Amazon has shed more than $50 billion in market value.

•Are investors waking up to Tesla’s real problem?

• Mark Zuckerberg agreed to testify before Congress.

• SoftBank and Saudi Arabia are planning the world’s largest solar energy project.

Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.

Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into the shares of companies like Facebook, Amazon and Netflix with special abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of the tech rally are being seriously tested.

Stocks in the best-known tech companies have plunged in recent days. The NYSE FANG+ index, which tracks the share price of 10 companies, including Facebook, Apple and Amazon, has fallen nearly 14 percent from its recent high. Given that the index has soared 50 percent in just the past 12 months, the recent decline could just be the sort of sell-off that punctuates any long-term rally.

Still, several large tech companies suddenly face challenges that could undermine their ability to transform whole industries. And as we’ve seen after previous fervors, investors can take a long time to regain their faith.

Facebook is down 20 percent from its recent high. Most of the slide came after news reports showing how the company’s data was misused. Investors have to grapple with the possibility that Facebook won’t be sharing as much data as it does, undermining its ability to generate ever-increasing amounts of advertising revenue.

Nvidia, a computer chip maker intent on being a leader in automated driving technology, is off 12 percent from its recent high. The company said on Tuesday that it would halt tests of its autonomous driving technology on public roads after an Uber self-driving car hit and killed a pedestrian in Arizona.

Tesla is not a tech stock, but it is included in the FANG+ index, and its supporters believe deeply in its power to revolutionize the auto industry. Growing fears about Tesla’s ability to finance its expansion have helped drag its stock down 33 percent from its recent high. Ominously, the price of Tesla’s bonds is also falling, signaling that the company is losing the confidence of creditors.

Of course, on their march higher, tech stocks overcame obstacles, like management problems at Uber and the poor performance of Snap’s initial public offering.

But the latest problems have raised deeper, broader doubts, and that may keep the uncertainty around longer. Investors have viewed automated driving technology as a huge potential source of growth for some companies. But after the Uber incident in Arizona, those companies may take a more realistic look at what they have to spend to create a technology that is efficient and safe, and conclude that they have to pull out of the race or pare back. Users of social media and regulators may prevent social media companies from sharing so much of their data with advertisers, and that could restrain revenue growth.

And if the passion for two or three big tech companies wanes, the cooling may spread.

— Peter Eavis

The reason?

Reports that President Trump wants to rein in the e-commerce giant.

Jonathan Swan of Axios, citing anonymous sources, reported:

Mr. Swan added:

Shares of Amazon have tumbled more than 7 percent at one point Wednesday, but they pared those losses after a White House official told Reuters there were no specific policy changes related to Amazon being considered at the moment. But the official added that the administration is always looking at different options on a range of policy issues.

How concerned should investors be?

GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives writes:

Guess which companies are benefiting from Amazon's woes? Retailers, the FT points out.

On a day when the stocks on Wall Street are flat, Macy’s was up 3.5 percent, J.C. Penney has gained 5.5 percent, Walmart rose 1.7 percent, Target increased 1.8 percent, and Kohl’s was up 2.4 percent.

The electric carmaker’s shares are down 7 percent Wednesday, after plunging 8 percent on Tuesday.

Tuesday’s slide was driven, in part, by the National Transportation Safety Board’s announcement that it was investigating a fatal crash last week involving a Tesla vehicle in California. News that Jaguar Land Rover was teaming up with Alphabet Inc.’s Waymo unit probably didn't help either.

But the continued decline in Tesla’s stock — its shares are down more than 20 percent since mid-March — speaks to the bigger concern surrounding Tesla: How it funds itself.

Investors have grown increasingly worried as Tesla burns through cash and struggles to meet its own production goals for the Model 3. Late Tuesday, Moody’s downgraded Tesla’s credit rating further into junk territory and said its outlook on the company is negative. The credit ratings agency cited production delays and said Tesla may soon need to raise more than $2 billion.

Those concerns can be seen not just in Tesla’s stock price but also in the trading of its debt. The FT points out that “Tesla’s eight-year bond maturing in 2025 traded on Wednesday at 87.6 cents to the dollar, the lowest since issuance. The yield has surged to 7.5 percent from 6.59 percent on Monday.”

Liam Denning of Bloomberg Gadfly writes:

The fallout from Facebook’s Cambridge Analytica scandal has spread to Twitter.

The stock tumbled 12 percent Tuesday after Citron Research’s Andrew Left said he was betting against the social media company because of its vulnerability to regulation around how it handles user data.

But analysts at Barclays disagree. They argue in a recent note to clients that Twitter’s data business likely won’t be impacted much by any regulation on its use of user data. 

The credit reporting company named Mark Begor, a private equity executive who once led General Electric’s credit card business, as its new chief executive.

Mr. Begor, 59, takes over for Paulino do Rego Barros Jr., who has filled the role on an interim basis since September, when Richard F. Smith stepped down after a data breach exposed sensitive personal information, including Social Security numbers, of 148 million people.

Mr. Begor will start at Equifax on April 16.

About Mr. Begor

• The 59-year-old is a managing director at the private equity firm Warburg Pincus. He is also a member of the board at the credit-scoring company FICO.

• Mr. Begor spent 35 years at General Electric, where his duties included leading the conglomerate’s real-estate investment and energy management units. For nine years, he was president and chief executive of the company’s consumer credit business, which was later spun off as Synchrony Financial.

His pay package

Equifax said it would give Mr. Begor stock and options valued at $17 million this year and an annual salary and bonus of up to $4.5 million.

President Trump has scored a significant trade deal with South Korea.

But with Mr. Trump preparing to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un — who just took an armored train trip to Beijing — and the North apparently pressing on with nuclear developments, an “America first” trade stance was far from the only thing pushing the South to sign. More from Michael D. Shear and Alan Rappeport:

The Trump administration continues to ramp up its trade rhetoric with China. Unidentified sources told Bloomberg that it is considering invoking an emergency law to restrict Chinese investments in sensitive U.S. tech. A separate plan to enact tariffs on $60 billion of Chinese goods has left companies wondering which industries will be targeted. Other Asian countries increasingly fear being caught in the crossfire of a trade war, the WSJ reports.

And nations are already reacting to Trump’s trade moves, erecting  barriers to stop the steel and aluminum that faces tariffs in the U.S. being dumped in their markets.

Against this background, NXP sold its 40 percent stake in a Chinese joint venture on chip design.

Companies like Facebook, Amazon and Alphabet have delivered some of the best returns to investors in recent years, powered by the achievements and the promise of social media and artificial intelligence.

But that confidence is evaporating, as investors brace for intensified regulatory scrutiny across the industry. Tech stocks took a pummeling yesterday and in early European trading.

Twitter dropped 12 percent after Andrew Left’s Citron Research said it was shorting the company.

Critic’s corner: The “sector’s growing clout over everyday life also raises the risks of what can go wrong,” Dan Gallagher argues at WSJ’s Heard on the Street.

The public outcry over Facebook’s data and privacy settings has grown loud enough that Mark Zuckerberg now says he’s willing to testify to Congress. The company is on a hiring spree for lobbyists, too, and unnamed sources say it’s putting off the promotion of new home products.

The man who started all this, the Cambridge Analytica whistle-blower Christopher Wylie, spoke to British lawmakers on Tuesday and revealed that an employee of Palantir Technologies had suggested that Cambridge Analytica build an app to gain access to Facebook networks. Palantir was co-founded by Peter Thiel, who sits on the Facebook board.

Separately, New Zealand’s privacy commissioner has accused Facebook of breaking a law by refusing to give a man information about him held in other users’ accounts. Fair housing groups are suing over ad targeting, saying Facebook still lets advertisers discriminate. And three Facebook Messenger users are suing on privacy grounds.

Nvidia — the chip maker whose autonomous-vehicle technology is used by Volkswagen, Tesla, Audi and hundreds of other firms — said it would halt its own tests on self-driving cars, after an autonomous Uber vehicle struck and killed a pedestrian in Arizona. Its shares dropped 7.8 percent.

Here’s Roger Lanctot, an automotive technology analyst with Strategy Analytics:

Tesla also tumbled 8.2 percent, after the National Transportation Safety Board said it was conducting its second crash investigation of the year involving one of the company’s cars. There’s also anxiety about whether it will hit production goals.

Uber said it would not renew its California permit for self-driving vehicle tests until investigations were complete in Arizona. And it’s facing questions over a decision to scale back on safety sensors.

But Waymo said it still intended to put thousands of self-driving cars — customized Jaguar I-Paces, to be precise — on the road over the next two years.

Critic’s corner: Timothy B. Lee argues in Ars Technica that Uber should sell its self-driving project, which needed a firm with a “methodical, safety-oriented culture.”

The tech flyaround

• Uber has settled a discrimination lawsuit from three female software engineers for $10 million. (Recode)

• Ransomware has hobbled the city government in Atlanta. (NYT)

• Apple unveiled a new iPad aimed at classrooms, where Google has raced ahead. (NYT)

• Oracle won a federal appeal in its multibillion-dollar copyright infringement claim against Google, in a way that could make software developers easier to sue. (WSJ)

• Google bought the GIF platform Tenor. (Verge)

• Snapchat is building a way for people to use their account with third-party apps, Facebook-style. (Recode)

• Robert Mercer, of Renaissance and Cambridge Analytica fame, is also a volunteer police officer in Lake Arthur, N.M. (Bloomberg)

• The former Supreme Court justice John Paul Stevens has called for the Second Amendment to be repealed, in an NYT Op-Ed. Bloomberg looked at how the bankruptcy of the gun maker Remington Outdoor would affect the people suing it for as much as $500 million. And the N.R.A. said it accepted funds from foreign sources, but did not spend them on election campaigns.

• At least 12 states say they would sue if the Trump administration seeks to add a question about citizenship to the 2020 census. A less accurate census — if, say, fewer immigrants were to respond — could distort both government spending and the House of Representatives.

• The F.B.I. found continuing ties between Russian intelligence and a business associate of the former Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort, according to court documents filed by the special counsel’s team. (WaPo)

• A Republican plan for the midterm elections: more tax cuts. (Politico)

The $200 billion solar power project would be the largest in the world and could help Saudi Arabia lessen its dependence on oil.

But Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at BNEF, told Bloomberg: “It is worth noting that many of these memorandums of understanding do not result in anything happening.”

Saudi officials were in New York as part of a tour by Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, who spoke to the NYT, urging a tough line on Iran. And Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund said it was considering opening offices around the world.

Deals flyaround

• Takeda Pharmaceutical said it was considering a bid for Shire that could improve its position in drugs for cancer, gastrointestinal disease and nervous system ailments. (Bloomberg)

• Potential bidders for GlaxoSmithKline’s health nutrition business could include Nestlé, Kraft Heinz and Unilever, unnamed sources say. (Reuters)

• The real estate broker Cushman & Wakefield is interviewing I.P.O. advisers, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)

• Tyson Foods has hired Goldman Sachs to explore the sale of its pizza crust business. (FT)

• In a cross-examination during their big merger case, the lead lawyer for AT&T and Time Warner pushed back against the description of Time Warner’s content as “must-have.” (CNN)

• The Carolina Panthers football team could fetch a record sale price of about $2.5 billion. (NYT)

Books are on hold and deals are being canceled as the publishing sector grapples with accusations of sexual harassment by authors and others.

But the response has not been universal, as publishers weigh lost profits against reputational risks in an industry dominated by women.

Separately, former employees at Wynn Resorts said that managers had for years ignored or dismissed complaints about Steve Wynn’s conduct toward women. A former Miramax employee appeared before British lawmakers today to seek a change in the law on nondisclosure agreements.

• The chief executive of Deutsche Bank, whoever it is, will face a challenge regaining investors’ trust: its share price is less than 40 percent of the net worth stated on its balance sheet and it relies a lot on potentially unpredictable Wall Street revenue.

• Wu Xiaihui, former chairman of the Chinese insurer Anbang, went on trial in Shanghai. (FT)

• A key player at the birth of Berkshire Hathaway’s health venture with Amazon and JPMorgan: the Berkshire investment manager Todd Combs. (Bloomberg)

• The former Lloyds Banking Group chief Eric Daniels has won a legal battle over a bonus worth $2.1 million. It was withheld from him after the bank needed a government bailout. (Times of London)

• Netflix’s talent hunting is pushing up Hollywood salaries. (Bloomberg)

• How much would a Warren Buffett investment help G.E.? (Bloomberg Gadfly)

Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.

You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Goroke, Victoria, a former stagecoach stop in southeastern Australia, pop. 200, is not the sort of place you would expect to host a daylong academic symposium. About five hours from Melbourne by car, the town has the feel of an evacuation nearly complete. Empty storefronts line the main street; the local pub closed two years ago. Drive a few minutes outside Goroke, and the only signs of life arrive at dusk, when the kangaroos emerge from the brush to stare down passers-by from the edge of the road. But last December, about 40 scholars, critics, editors and general readers made the journey for a series of lectures on the work of Gerald Murnane. The author, who has lived in Goroke for the last decade, prefers not to travel, and he had suggested the scholars convene at the local golf club, where he plays a weekly game and also regularly tends bar.

A strong case could be made for Murnane, who recently turned 79, as the greatest living English-language writer most people have never heard of. Even in his home country, he remains a cult figure; in 1999, when he won the Patrick White Award for underrecognized Australian writers, all his books were out of print. Yet his work has been praised by J.M. Coetzee and Shirley Hazzard, as well as young American writers like Ben Lerner and Joshua Cohen. Teju Cole has described Murnane as “a genius” and a “worthy heir to Beckett.” Last year, Ladbrokes placed his odds at winning the Nobel Prize for Literature at 50 to 1 — better than Cormac McCarthy, Salman Rushdie and Elena Ferrante.

Murnane’s books are strange and wonderful and nearly impossible to describe in a sentence or two. After his third novel, “The Plains,” a fable-like story reminiscent of Italo Calvino published in 1982, Murnane largely turned away from what might be called conventional narrative pleasures. Dispensing almost entirely with plot and character, his later works are essayistic meditations on his own past, a personal mythology as attuned to the epic ordinariness of lost time as Proust, except with Murnane it’s horse races, a boyhood marble collection, Catholic sexual hang-ups and life as a househusband in the suburban Melbourne of the 1970s.

Murnane has not made the selling of himself an easy task. Even by the standards of the solitary writer, his eccentricities are manifest. He has never flown on an airplane; in fact, he has barely traveled outside of Victoria. In a 2001 speech that has become legend among Murnanophiles, he informed an audience at the University of Newcastle of his longstanding belief that “a person reveals at least as much when he reports what he cannot do or has never done.” He went on:

Murnane is a trim, compact man with a fierce face; in photographs, especially, he exhibits a strong disinclination to smiling, favoring the hard stare. At the Goroke Golf Club, a V.F.W.-style hall with cinder-block walls and vinyl floral-print tablecloths, he positioned himself behind the bar and flipped through a newspaper, half-listening to presentations with titles like “Intention and Retrospective Revision in Gerald Murnane’s ‘Border Districts.’ ” Later, he claimed not to have followed much of the discussions. Mostly, he remembered thinking, Oh, so that’s what it looks like to you. During breaks, he signed books, occasionally complaining about the covers, and sold beer and soft drinks to the academics.

When I mentioned Murnane’s bartending to his old friend Imre Saluszinksy, a journalist in Sydney, he paused, then said: “Yeah, look, it’s bizarre. Somebody’s going to come to this godforsaken dry golf course and order a beer from a person who could be the winner of the next Nobel Prize for Literature?”

Then again, for Murnane, who once expressed regret at not having simply allowed “discerning editors to publish all my pieces of writing as essays,” the author is always present in the text, and so for the enterprising scholar, there’s arguably legitimate hermeneutic value in buying a Carlton from the subject of your dissertation. Murnane’s life, his fiction and the landscape he inhabits — the beauty and isolation of the Victorian interior, calm seas of yellow grassland that conjure schoolbook images of the veld — are so inextricably entwined that to visit him in Goroke feels at once like a field trip and a close reading.

A few weeks after my own journey to Goroke had been arranged, but before I had left for Australia, I heard from a publicist at Murnane’s American publishing house: Could I send Gerald a text message? (After Murnane moved to Goroke, his sons insisted he violate one of the other longstanding strictures laid out in the Newcastle speech and purchase a cellular telephone.) Murnane was concerned because he hadn’t received word from me. I’d assumed, incorrectly, that he wouldn’t want to be bothered by a journalist unless necessary. But five minutes after I sent him a quick introductory note, I received a long reply. It began: “Very pleased to hear from you. I promise you abundant material. I have a reputation in some quarters as an aloof recluse but that’s only because I refuse to go to writers’ festivals and talk the fake-intellectual [expletive] that most writers talk. I’m wholly different and original and also affable and friendly when I’m with genuine unpretentious folk such as the old guys I play golf with every week.” After dispatching some scheduling questions, he ended the message, “Once again, I promise you an interview unlike any you’ve done before.”

In one of my favorite Murnane stories, “Precious Bane,” published in 1985, the narrator, an aspiring writer who worries about becoming an alcoholic, browses unhappily in a used bookstore. He carries around a list of authors in a notebook labeled “1900-1940 ... Unjustly Neglected” and worries about his own legacy — a bit prematurely, as he hasn’t published anything yet. Then, because it’s Murnane, the plot, such as it is, turns inward, as the protagonist pictures a scene far in the future: the year 2020. (The story is set in 1980.) In his mind, he sees a man standing before a wall of bookshelves, gazing at the spine of the last remaining copy of a novel composed 40 years earlier. The man has read the book, but he’s struggling to remember a single detail from the text, anything, a line, an image. (This is a favorite exercise of the real-life Murnane.) An odd five-page digression follows, in which the narrator imagines the human brain as a Carthusian monastery, with monks in charge of preserving memories. Eventually, he returns to the imagined future reader, who has failed to recall anything from what is, of course, the narrator’s book: “The man fills his glass again and goes on sipping some costly poison of the twenty-first century. He does not understand the importance of his forgetfulness, but I understand it. I know that no one now remembers anything of my writing.”

Happily, though we’re only two years shy of his imagined dystopia, the Goroke symposium took place in the context of a belated surge of interest in Murnane’s work. Here in the United States, Murnane’s publishing history was spotty to nonexistent until Dalkey Archive, a small literary press, released his novel “Barley Patch” in 2011. This month, Farrar, Straus and Giroux will publish “Stream System,” Murnane’s collected short fiction, and a new novel, “Border Districts.”

The trickiness of categorizing Murnane’s work goes some way toward explaining why he’s not a household name, even among households with lots of books. Is he an outsider artist or a postmodern master? Both? Neither? As much as Murnane reveres Proust, his own elaborate memory palaces remain a genre unto themselves. On a sentence level, Murnane adheres to a militant grammatical precision and engages in repetition that verges on the incantatory (and that privileges the noun over the pronoun). It’s a hypnotic style, dryly funny, or at least aware of the ways in which its fussiness might be amusing. In 1990, The London Review of Books published a cranky letter from Murnane that read, in full: “Dear Editors, Frank Kermode quotes what he calls a very long sentence from Thomas Pynchon (LRB, 8 Feb, 90). The passage quoted is not a sentence. The passage consists of a sentence of 66 words followed by a comma and then a sequence of clauses and phrases that is neither a part of the sentence preceding it nor a sentence in itself.”

Murnane once described himself as a “technical writer” — meaning, he explained, that in his depictions of “the mental imagery that is my only available subject-matter,” he strove for the rigor and precision of a white paper. (He often refers to his stories as reports.) I’d say he’s more like a detective, pacing in front of a gigantic evidence board. A typical Murnane work of fiction unfolds like a procedural, often spinning out from a single, half-remembered image, something as simple as a jockey’s racing colors, as glimpsed on a youthful outing to the track in Bendigo, a city in Victoria. Other memories will follow — anecdotes, personal asides, funny or sad little stories within the story — and it can all seem digressive, until the methodical obsessiveness of Murnane’s self-interrogation becomes clear. He’s searching the furthest reaches of his memory for clues, hidden meanings, details that might have slipped away. The digressions turn out to be leads. And in the end, there’s no writing-workshop epiphany, but rather that thrilling moment when the circles and arrows linking up the photographs thumbtacked to the squad-room wall form a previously unseen web of connection.

For newcomers, the wide-ranging “Stream System” is the place to begin. Some of the stories assume more recognizable forms — for instance, the entire history of Australian colonialism becomes a concise, Borgesian parable about desire in “Land Deal.” Most of the other pieces feature self-conscious narrators who compulsively draw readerly attention to the text (“Boy Blue” begins “A few weeks ago, the person writing this story read aloud to a gathering of persons another story that he had written”) and could be read as fragmented, expressionistic memoirs in miniature. In “Velvet Waters,” the subject is failed romance; in one of the story’s funnier episodes, the shy, Murnane-like narrator tries to impress a love interest by telling her about a weekend trip to an art movie — unfortunately, it’s Ingmar Bergman’s “The Virgin Spring,” and he ends up going into great detail about the rape sequence. “Cotters Come No More” is a tribute to a complicated relationship with a favorite bachelor uncle who, in a lovely bit of imagery at the opening of the story, traps a fly under a glass, tosses it into a spider web “and then stands with his hands on his hips, observing.” Later, the teenage narrator recalls walks with his uncle on the family land, where

In a long appreciation in his recent collection of essays, Coetzee praised Murnane’s “chiseled sentences,” placing him among of the last generation of Australian writers to come to maturity when the country “was still a cultural colony of England, repressed, puritanical and suspicious of foreigners.” Murnane’s Australianness comes through most clearly in “The Plains” — considered his masterpiece by many — which follows an artist seeking patronage from wealthy landowners in a mysterious frontier town, hoping to film the unfilmable secrets of the titular landscape. The world Murnane describes is a dream-country, where battles are waged between rival schools of artists (the Horizonites and the Haremen) and coastal condescension is flipped on its head as the vast, unloved interior becomes a place of rich and bedeviling obscurity, where landowners in their baronial estates “pity the poor coast-dwellers staring all day from their cheerless beaches at the worst of all deserts” and express bafflement with “their awe at a mere absence of land.”

When I spoke to Saluszinksy, a former professor of English who published a monograph on Murnane with Oxford University Press in 1993, he brought up the story “Precious Bane,” which is also included in “Stream System,” pointing out that the title is a phrase used by Milton to describe money, something “we need to get the things we want.” Saluszinksy went on, “I think for Gerald writing is a kind of precious bane. It’s a burden and a nuisance, almost a duty, having to explore the connections between the images in his mind. And he keeps telling us that he has done his duty, that this is it. But of course, to use, if you’ll forgive me, Derridean language, there’s always a supplement. There’s always an appendix. There’s always something left unsaid.”

My first day in Goroke, Murnane instructed me to pick him up at the local Men’s Shed, housed in a former bank. For the non-Australian reader, a quick explanation: A men’s shed is a communal workshop where members do things like repair shelves or bicycles, part of a national public-health initiative aimed at curbing depression among retired men. Murnane possesses few useful skills for a men’s shed, but the week after he moved to Goroke, the owner of the local service station invited him to join. He looks after the kitchen, cleans the toilet and serves as treasurer.

Murnane had been watching the street from behind the muslin storefront curtain, and he marched outside to greet me. He wore a plaid shirt tucked into light khaki trousers and had the loose, ruddy skin of an avid golfer of a certain age. A successful treatment for prostate cancer had left him unable to sleep without interruption, but he appeared sharp and full of vim.

“Your body adapts, like a soldier in the trenches,” Murnane said matter-of-factly. The shed wasn’t technically open, but Murnane led me past dusty workbenches scattered with tools into a modest lounge, where he put on a kettle and opened a jar of instant coffee. His health, he said, had been improving, and he felt “full of optimism,” and not just about his recovery. “My publishing history’s just so checkered with sudden reversals, ups and downs, confusions, wrong turnings, and at the end of my life, virtually, it seems like things are starting to work out,” he said.

Then he pulled out an envelope, on which he’d written a series of preliminary questions to ask me. They included “Are you at all interested in golf?” “Are you at all interested in horse racing?” and “What do you propose to do for lunch?” My answers (no, sort of, your call) seemed to satisfy him. “You might feel like you’re being overorganized, but this is how I do things,” Murnane said, leaning back in a chair. On a bulletin board behind him, someone had tacked up a photograph of a man at a pub drinking from a glass of beer the size of a trash barrel. The caption read, “I’m Only Going Out for One.”

Murnane moved to Goroke in 2009, after the death of his wife of 43 years, Catherine. Their eldest son, Giles, whom Murnane repeatedly described as a hermit, had come to Goroke years earlier, having chosen the town off the map for its cheap housing. Murnane had always been attracted to the country, and the first time he visited Giles, driving past the town graveyard, he had a premonition, “calmly and wordlessly,” he later wrote, “as one understands things in dreams”: That’s where my ashes will lie. 

“I think you can probably see that I’m sane, but I say and believe things that insane people believe,” Murnane told me. “I don’t believe in a personal God, but I believe in the survival of the soul. And I get intimations and feelings.” Catherine had no desire to move from their home in the Melbourne suburbs, but when her doctor informed her that she had terminal lung cancer, she turned to Murnane and said, “Now you can go and live in Goroke.” Less than a year later, she was buried in the town’s cemetery. “And I came up here to live with my hermit son,” Murnane said. “Scholarly people who admire my books find it somewhat incongruous that I should live in a place like this. But I don’t mix very much with writers. We have very little to talk about. I find most of them pretentious. So it seems to me the most natural thing in the world that I should live here at this period in my life.”

Murnane and his son live on a residential street a few blocks away from the Men’s Shed. An unpaved alley lined with corrugated-tin fencing led to the back entrance. The place had a ramshackle quality. A corrugated-tin barn stood beside five squat reservoirs used to capture rainwater — the town’s water is not potable — and a lonely clothesline tree leaned crookedly in a cement courtyard surrounded by an uneven stone wall. Murnane lived in a studio behind the main house. Both buildings were constructed from unlined blocks of white sandstone quarried nearby, giving Murnane’s quarters, especially, a bunkerlike feel.

It’s difficult to overstate the lack of shared qualities between Murnane’s room and any recognized notion of a living area. There were nods in the latter direction: the kitchen sink and minifridge; the tiny bathroom; a wooden schoolboy’s desk, facing a blank wall in the corner, where Murnane writes. But the bulk of the room had been filled with Murnane’s archives: more than a dozen filing cabinets, lining three walls and containing thousands of pages of journals, letters, lecture notes and ephemera from every stage of his life. A separate row of metal storage lockers bisected the center of the room, adding to the jarring overall motif, a blend of fanatical organization and claustrophobia, as if a squatter had taken over a secluded wing of a research library. There was no bed. Murnane keeps a folding cot in his shower stall. A threadbare sleeping pad, meant for a tent, was stored atop the storage lockers along with some blankets.

Murnane began keeping the archives more than 50 years ago, both for posterity and to satisfy his own meticulous sense of order, and he has left strict instructions regarding their contents, which are not to be made public until after his own death and the death of his surviving siblings. (He has one brother, a Catholic priest, and a sister; another brother, who was born with an intellectual disability and was repeatedly hospitalized, died in 1985.) Nonetheless, Murnane opened the cabinets to give me a sense of their contents. His so-called Chronological Archive is stuffed with hanging files covering each period of his life and featuring headings like “I rebuff a wealthy widow,” “I fall out with an arrogant student of mine,” “Two women bother me,” “I decide that most books are crap,” “Hoaxes! How I love them!” and “Peter Carey exposed at last.” He also has multiple drafts of his 13 books; letters addressed, as in a time capsule, to a future Murnane scholar, whom he imagines as a young woman, and whom he addresses in the letters as “Fc,” for “future creature”; a notebook of 20,000 words titled “My Shame File”; a 40,000-word report on miraculous or unexplained events in his life; and a 75,000-word account of his dealings with everyone he has ever courted romantically or considered courting.

“There’s your seat,” he said, gesturing to a camping chair unfolded at the foot of his desk. It sat comically low to the ground. I settled in, the lockers containing every detail of Murnane’s mind rising on either side of me like canyon walls, and Murnane pulled out a list of agenda items he wished to discuss.

The list had been organized, I soon realized, in such a way that we would move in a counterclockwise direction around the room, stopping at various points to discuss objects of particular significance. One of the first items he pointed out, a poster covered with the racing colors of every jockey who had won the Melbourne Cup from its inception in 1861 until 2008, turned out to be part of his daily routine of memory exercises, which he compared to the offices, or hourly prayers, performed by Catholic priests.

Turning away from the poster and clutching his hands behind his back, he told me to pick a year. I offered 1970. “Nineteen-seventy,” Murnane said. “That horse was Baghdad Note. Emerald green, with white-striped sleeve and cap.” Mondays, he said, he recited the entire list in order. Tuesdays he went backward. Other days involved skipping around the poster in ways I didn’t quite follow. After that, he did the same with the 50 states of America and then recited passages in Hungarian, a language he’d learned at 56. He showed me a set of flashcards. The English side of the one I picked up read, “He was caught up in the enthusiasm.”

Murnane had started talking the moment I picked him up at the Men’s Shed, and he didn’t stop, with few exceptions, for the next 12 hours, until I left for my hotel, a room above a pub in nearby Natimuk. He spoke rapidly, in a futile effort to keep pace with the speed of his own thoughts, constantly interrupting himself with muttered asides — a quote from the symbolist playwright Alfred Jarry, a self-deprecating story about his haplessness with women, a gripe about a Publishers Weekly review from the mid-1980s. He accepted my own interruptions of his monologues with good humor and often delight at the prospect of a new digression. When he excused himself to use the toilet, he closed the bathroom door and raised his voice.

Even though their accents are nothing alike, something about the way Murnane spoke reminded me of Michael Caine, or at least of the East London gangsters Caine once played. His voice, clipped and nasal, had a bantam toughness, and his sentences (in life, not literature) make regular detours from formidable erudition into the slangy and profane. He described a cheapskate he knows as “mean with money, the [expletive],” a reputedly promiscuous girl of his youth as “a rough sort of tart.” He took special pleasure in revisiting old grudges, but could also be casually impolitic. On Raymond Carver: “I met him. He came to Australia once. The second word he said to me was [expletive]. I thought, You’re too dumb to have written what you wrote.”

We came to a map of Victoria. Murnane estimates that his family moved a dozen times before his 20th birthday, always in and around greater Melbourne and often in flight from gambling debts incurred at racing meets by his father, Reginald, described to me by a friend of Gerald’s as “a wastrel.” Murnane pointed out Murnane Bay, a notch on Victoria’s southern coast said to be named after his grandfather, a prosperous dairy farmer: “Nasty old [expletive] of a bloke. Tom. No one liked him. Well, my father worshiped him, for some reason. I hated the guy.” Despite all his time spent there as a boy, Murnane never learned to swim. “The water gets in my eyes, I panic, that’s why I don’t have showers,” he said. (He washes himself, he explained, standing at the sink.) “That’s where I learned to hate the sea,” he went on, “and to look inland toward the plains.”

At 18, Murnane entered a seminary. He lasted only three months and lost his faith by his early 20s; the lure, more than God, had been the idealized notion of a monastic writing life. He’d been reading Thomas Merton, the American Trappist monk, and envied such an ordered existence, so pure in its devotion. As a teenager, he dreamed of becoming a poet, in part because he assumed writers of prose possessed an understanding of human behavior, which he believed he lacked. “I don’t know what anyone is thinking,” Murnane told me. “People are a mystery to me.” He spent 13 years as a public servant, teaching in primary schools and working as an editor in a government office, and he married Catherine, who also worked as a teacher, in 1966, when he was 27. They settled in an unfashionable northern suburb, where she supported his decision to quit his day job and take care of their three sons, snatching free moments to work on his fiction and supplementing the family income with the occasional grant.

By the time he published “The Plains,” Murnane had begun teaching creative writing at the Australian equivalent of a community college, but despite the novel’s critical success, he maintained an ambivalent distance from the literary scene. He still did most of his writing at an ironing board set up in his kitchen, because his family’s home was so crowded for space.

The novelist Helen Garner told me in an email that she first met Murnane at a literary festival in Adelaide in 1986. She won an award, and after the presentation, Murnane quietly introduced himself and asked, somewhat agitated, if he could put a question to her: Had she received word of her award in advance? Yes, Garner replied. “His face darkened, and he turned away muttering,” Garner recalled. “I didn’t know where to put myself, thinking he was unable to conceal his anger at not having won the prize. But he pulled himself together and explained that he had never before traveled outside his home state of Victoria, that he hated traveling and never wanted to go anywhere — against all his principles and natural inclinations he had come all this way to Adelaide (I think by train) ONLY because he’d thought his book (which I think must have been “Landscape With Landscape”) had a very good chance of winning the prize. ... His explanation was so sincere, and his distress at having been betrayed into acting against his inner self so genuine, that I felt very warmly toward him, and have done ever since, in my very distant acquaintance with him.”

As we circumnavigated his room, Murnane sipped from a plastic bottle containing a suspiciously cloudy beverage. It turned out to be water mixed with vinegar. (His doctor had instructed him to drink more water, but he didn’t like the taste.) Around 4:30, as he does every day, Murnane switched to beer, a slightly sour, high-alcohol-content pale ale he brewed himself, originally to save money, though now he’d grown partial to it. His golfing partner, the daughter of a friend from the Men’s Shed, had invited us over for dinner. Before we left, Murnane settled into his desk chair and rubbed his eyes, his unruly eyebrows squirming above his fingers.

“Even though I’ve lived what some people would call a sheltered life,” Murnane said, “I love how — I don’t know if it’s a misquote or what, but Kafka is once supposed to have said, ‘If you stay in your room, the world will come to you and writhe on the floor in front of you.’ I came here to Goroke intending to stay in this room. And the world is writhing in front of me.” Editors, scholars, journalists, Murnane said, “they all come up here to see how I live.”

Well, but not just that, I thought, looking around. A visit to Murnane’s room made me think of the one-way intimacy that occurs between reader and writer — that feeling, after finishing a poem or novel, of having temporarily inhabited a consciousness not your own. Only here, I had the rare opportunity to experience that sensation in a physical space. (As in his “chiseled” paragraphs, in Murnane’s archive everything has its place: While showing me the chronological files, Murane pointed at a cabinet drawer and said, “My wife dies over here.”) Stepping into the hermetic confines of Murnane’s world so perfectly mirrored his fictional project that it felt like stepping into the pages of one of his books.

Murnane’s golfing partner, Tammy Williams, lives with her two children in a cozy, art-filled home about five minutes away. (To be clear, everything in Goroke is five minutes away.) Pulling up a chair at the kitchen table, Murnane nodded in my direction and said: “He tasted the home brew. Didn’t make any comment. But he got it down. He didn’t spit it out.”

Williams, looking appalled, quickly poured me a glass of wine.

“Did you see the way he lives?” Williams asked, as she began to arrange a buffet. Murnane appeared delighted by the teasing. Williams shook her head and said, “I told Gerald once, ‘You might be a famous writer, but you’re a crap golfer.’ ”

During my time in Goroke, I never met Murnane’s son Giles. Murnane said he slept during the day and mostly ventured out at night to pick up snacks or fast food in Horsham, a city about 45 minutes away. Despite the “hermit” cracks, he spoke tenderly, and in protective terms, of Giles; ailing or troubled children appear in several of his stories, including, most powerfully, in the opening story in “Stream System,” “When the Mice Failed to Arrive,” in which the protagonist, a primary-school teacher turned househusband, struggles to explain suffering to a son hospitalized with asthma. Catherine also dealt with serious illnesses throughout her life, often leaving Gerald to care for the children.

“Gerald had a hard time in the city,” Chris Gregory, a friend and former student, told me in an email. “He isn’t the sort of person to tell you his problems, and I’m not the sort to ask about them, but it’s clearly been hard, working in semi-obscurity, kicking against the pricks, dealing with a sometimes-difficult family life, his wife’s painful death.” Ivor Indyk, Murnane’s longtime Australian publisher, believes the recursive mode of his fiction, its circularity and baroque structure, was a way for him to deal with “hot material — hot for him, because it’s emotionally charged,” Indyk told me. “There are events in his past that he’s still coming to terms with.”

On my last day in Goroke, Murnane and I visited Catherine’s grave. The simple marker read:

He pulled a handkerchief from his pocket and wiped off the top of the stone. It was the last day of January, summer in Australia, and the shorn barley and wheat fields we’d driven past had seemed to pixelate in the bright afternoon sunlight.

Ever one for spatial precision, Murnane pointed to the spot on the ground where Catherine’s ashes had been interred, forming a small, boxlike shape with his hands. “And I’ll be buried where you’re standing,” he said.

I took a step back.

Murnane had other things he wanted to show me: the golf club, a lake on the outskirts of town. Back at the Men’s Shed, he introduced me to some of the other members, Rob, Taffy, Rossco, former truck drivers, farmers, mechanics: “Now, this man says he likes a lot about Australia, but he has found a few faults with Australian men,” Murnane said, gesturing to me. “He thinks they swear too much, they tell too many dirty jokes and they drink too much. So I said, ‘Don’t worry, Mark, I’ll take you to a place where none of that happens.’ ” The guys chuckled, and Murnane waggled a finger at them: “So you [expletive] [expletive] better not make a liar of me!”

Murnane, who has said “Border Districts” will be his final novel, did not look like someone who missed his old life. In fact, he had recused himself from the literary scene once before. Back in Melbourne, as his books after “The Plains” became more experimental and inward-looking, he felt like an increasingly marginal figure — so much so that, in 1991, he decided to quit. Over the next decade, Murnane published only a single story collection, “Emerald Blue,” comprising mostly older material; the final sentence of the final story, “The Interior of Gaaldine,” reads, “The text ends at this point.” (“Emerald Blue” sold 600 copies, affirming his decision.) For extra cash, he took a job bundling newspapers and magazines in the early hours of the morning. He returned to writing only in 2001, after Indyk, the publisher of an independent literary press, offered to give him a home.

What exactly did Murnane get up to during his lost decade? It turns out he left a clue in “The Interior of Gaaldine.” The first half is a comic telling of a drunken journey by boat to Tasmania for a literary tour, made under duress by a writer who hates to travel. The story takes a turn into the supernatural after the protagonist’s arrival in Hobart, where, after he passes out in his hotel room, a ghostly messenger delivers a briefcase. It contains thousands of pages of writing — not, as the protagonist fears, an unpublished manuscript, but details of a complex horse-racing game devised by its owner, who has spent decades playing the game alone in his room. The protagonist wonders if “the author of the pages wanted to meet me in order to persuade me to write a different sort of fiction in the future.”

Though Murnane never became a problem gambler like his father, one of his most cherished childhood memories involves a horse-racing game he played with a set of colored marbles. (To this day, he keeps the marbles in a jar in his room, where they occupy a place of pride just behind his writing desk.) And the strangest thing about “The Interior of Gaaldine” is that not only the obviously autobiographical first half of the story, but the entire thing, basically, minus the ghost and the briefcase, is true. Murnane, working in secret beginning in 1985, developed a wildly more intricate version of his boyhood racing game, which is how he spent most of his retirement, and how he fills many of his evenings in Goroke.

He calls the project his Antipodean Archive. Inside its cabinet’s drawers, there were maps of the two fictional countries where the races take place (including timetables for the major train networks), detailed sketches of racecourses and notebooks filled with the names and racing colors of the 1,500 full-time trainers, illustrated with head shots cut from newspapers and Murnane’s own childlike drawings of the racing silks. An index listed every horse to have raced in the Antipodes, and there were handwritten, single-spaced results of the hundreds of races, as in a racing form. His method of determining race outcomes, too complex to get into here, involves, of course, books: A randomly chosen sentence generates points for a particular horse based on the number of vowels and consonants, combined with a banked system of points Murnane can award to favorites.

As we flipped through the folders, I thought of the great Robert Coover novel “The Universal Baseball Association, Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop.,” about a recluse who invents a proto-fantasy-baseball game with players who become more real to him than any live human, and also about the work of outsider artists like Henry Darger, the reclusive Chicago janitor who secretly crafted his own elaborate, obsessive mythology illustrated with hundreds of paintings and collages. As Murnane explained the world he had created, he sounded as if he were speaking of a real place: “Now in New Arcady, which is the smaller island, there are only 12 racecourses. They have races about five days a week up in the North.” At one point, Murnane closed his eyes, clenched his hands into fists and broke into song. It was the New Eden national anthem, which he’d written and composed himself.

Oceans foaming, mariners roaming, never a home in perilous seas. ... 

The lyrics “are not my best shot,” Murnane acknowledged. “They’re meant to sound like something people would compose in 1880.”

For years, he kept his project under wraps, even from his wife. “It’s an embarrassing thing for an old man, or a middle-aged man at the time, that he plays kids’ games,” Murnane said. “But they’re not kids’ games.” To help me better understand, he showed me a letter he’d written to “Fc,” his future creature. It read, in part: “All the fiction I ever wrote or read was a preparation for this, my true life’s work. In book after book of mine, I wrote about the contents of my mind, setting all my images on paper so that I could have done with them; could sweep them out of sight and leave my mind free for the infinite imagery of the Antipodes.” His reports from the interior, from his own interior, had always skirted around the edges of a central image winking at the far reaches of his consciousness, a pair of his dream jockeys crossing a finish line. How could he ignore them?

Next year, to coincide with his 80th birthday, Murnane will publish a book of poetry and outtakes from a previous novel. But other than the poems, composed in Goroke over the last few years, Murnane says he has retired once again. “If I woke up tomorrow morning feeling a tremendous pressure to write, I would write,” Murnane told me. “But I probably won’t. I almost certainly won’t.” Instead, he spends his evenings recording the results of imaginary races for his archive. Surely it must contain a germ of a narrative, an editor once insisted. “But, of course, several, no, thousands of narratives are embodied in the Archive,” Murnane wrote to “Fc.” “There are at least as many narratives as there are horses and jockeys and trainers and owners.”

I no longer felt as if I’d stepped into a story by Murnane, but rather one by Borges: a story about a brilliant writer who discovers that the purest form of writing is, in the end, to write nothing at all.

Gingerly, I prodded Murnane. All his books had been so deeply personal, but also something any reader could enter into. But with the Antipodean Archive, Murnane had created countries where only he could travel. Did he harbor any second thoughts about diverting so much of his creativity into such a private pursuit?

Murnane smiled. He could see another connection forming. From one of his cabinets, he retrieved a typewritten manuscript page from his poetry collection. Read it, he instructed. That’s where we’d stop.

The poem, after explaining the archive over many lines, “the perfect summation/of my lifelong belief in the sport of horse-racing/as a better source of inspiration/than opera, theater, film, you name it,” ended like this:

Reader, if you’re urged

to learn more about this imagined world,

outlive me and my siblings and visit the library

where my archives end up. You’ll find there a filing

cabinet full of the sort of detail

that I wanted to include in this poem but failed.

You’ll read thousands of pages, though you’ll never see,

unfortunately, what they revealed to me.

Even though many schools are on spring break, we still received hundreds of comments from all over the United States this week, and we enjoyed reading remarks on the nine Learning Network writing prompts featured in this post — especially those from Chicago; Pittsburgh; Rochester, Wash.; Dallas; Providence, R.I.; and Saco, Me.

As always, thank you for offering your insightful opinions and sharing your personal experiences. It’s especially heartening to see that some of you are taking time to read and then reply to other students’ comments after posting your own. Keep it up!

Please note: All student comments have been lightly edited for length, but otherwise appear exactly as they were originally submitted.

_________

Our Student Opinion prompt “Have You Ever Felt Pressured to Betray Your Beliefs?” asked students about Benjamin Glaze, 19, who, while auditioning for “American Idol,” was asked whether he’d ever been kissed. When he said “no” and explained why, Mr. Glaze was kissed by Katy Perry, one of the show’s judges. Many students strongly disapproved of Ms. Perry’s actions, saying Mr. Glaze’s religious beliefs were disrespected. In the eyes of many who commented, the kiss was harassment.

Faith Beaulieu from Saco, Me., said simply:

Francesca Altunyay from Wilmington, N.C., thinks Ms. Perry should be held accountable:

Jaliyah from winnetonka said Mr. Glaze was not treated with respect:

Hadley Todd from Wilmington, N.C., has not ever been pressured to betray personal beliefs:

Denislav Kasaivanov from Wilmington, N.C., thinks the media overreacted to the incident:

Ben C. from North Carolina does not impose his will on others:

Mary Wells from Wilmington, N.C., found herself shocked:

perla elias from caruthers said feeling pressure to do something is not welcome:

Aubrey Ella Hyldahl from Wilmington, N.C., said women and men must be held to the same standards:

Kayla Renee from Pennsylvania has never felt pressure to betray her beliefs:

Amy Blanchard in Saco, Me., said the kiss was not consensual:

Liz from Maine thinks the kiss was an assault:

_________

Our Student Opinion prompt “Are We Being Bad Citizens If We Don’t Keep Up With the News? was very popular, with views on both sides straightforwardly expressed.

Athena Brenner from Wilmington, N.C, applauds Erik Hagerman’s retreat to solitude:

Sophia McNamara from Chicago thinks it is a childish move:

Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., likes the attempt at a balanced life:

Tara Samtmann from Wilmington, N.C., said a basic understanding of the news is important:

Josh P from Washington said he can relate, but doesn’t support ignoring the news:

Kyler C from Rochester, Wash., thinks following the news is responsible:

John Doe from Louisiana thinks the answer is yes:

_________

We asked students how they related to the graph in our Picture Prompt “A Scary Time.” Here’s what they had to say.

Katharine from Rhode Island interpreted it this way:

Aminah I. from Providence, R.I., discussed the importance of physical touch:

Patrick Iammatteo from Wilmington, N.C., finds comfort in a different way:

Sydney Durner from Wilmington, N.C., shared how she handles scary times:

_________

Our Student Opinion question “What Activities Make You Feel Most Alive?” brought some surprising answers.

Beck RT from Massachusetts enjoys singing:

Emily Ball from Wilmington, N.C., said nature is the thing:

Nick Hargrove from Wilmington, N.C., says risk provides a nice thrill:

Annie Herring from Dallas hopes to row and hike into her old age:

Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., said devotion to a passion is where life comes from:

And Francesca Altunyay from Wilmington, N.C., is inspired by Aleksander Doba to overcome her personal daily struggles:

_________

With dozens of different responses to “What Makes Someone a Great Leader?,” commenters proved there are myriad ways to move and inspire others — whether you are a man or a woman.

Katie M. from Pittsburgh defined a leader this way:

Abbey Skinner from Danvers, Mass., said that a great leader is a great person:

Morgan B. from Massachusetts discovered from her own experience that there are many ways to lead:

Many students also commented on the reasons women are less likely to be perceived as leadership material, and why recognizing these stereotypes is important.

Clea Matt from Danvers, Mass., wrote about a lack of representation:

Anna C. from Wilmington, N.C., pointed to the media’s portrayal of women:

Ryan Brooks from Danvers, Mass., gave an example from her own life:

And Essence Bradford from WHS concisely explained why addressing this issue matters:

_________

Students weighed in with their opinions about technology etiquette on our Picture Prompt “Phone Manners.”

Jordyn Ives from Westfield, N.J., ranted about teenagers’ inappropriate use of technology in social situations:

Shelby Johnson from Massachusetts is equally annoyed by such behavior:

And Kaley Nesselroade from Wilmington, N.C., sometimes gets so bothered that she wishes phones were never invented:

Sarah Welford from Danvers, Mass., was one of the few commenters who thought phones could help, instead of hinder, social interactions:

Zac Gill from Wilmington, N.C., learned proper phone manners from his family:

Josh Failla from Wilmington, N.C., suggested that learning to put down our phones and embrace the awkwardness is the key to building better relationships:

_________

“Have You Ever Experienced Food Insecurity?” prompted some deep thinking on the part of commenters, who spoke movingly:

Olivia Lain from Wrightsville Beach, N.C., thinks no children should go hungry:

Kevin from Vancouver, British Columbia, thinks schools need to do more:

Tyler Rouse Wilmington N.C., agrees with the new changes to accommodate all students:

Janelly from Providence, R.I., has empathy for those who have experienced food insecurity:

_________

The Picture Prompt “Cast of Characters” asked students what story is told in the image above.

Parker Bolles from Wilmington N.C., thought of the Seven Deadly Sins:

Neil Phillips from Wilmington, N.C., cringed at the image:

Tucker G. Oakley from Wilmington, N.C., created a short story:

_________

Our Picture Prompt "Falling Gold” asked students to guess what caused bars of gold alloy to fall onto a runway in Russia, or to remember the most beautiful or unusual thing they ever saw falling from the sky.

Max Bergman from Wilmington, N.C., said, to him, sunshine is as valuable as gold:

Neil Phillips from Wilmington, N.C., has questions:

Brianna Browning from Wilmington, N.C., recalled a childhood memory:

savannah brittain from Wilmington guessed correctly:

_________