Ever since Kenneth I. Chenault announced last fall that he would retire as chief executive of American Express, he has been fielding phone calls from companies looking to hire him.

It’s not surprising. Mr. Chenault is one of the most prominent African-American chief executives in the world and the man who led American Express through 9/11 and the financial crisis. When it came to selecting his next act, he was bound to have a wide variety of choices.

In the last two weeks, he has announced he was joining the boards of Facebook and Airbnb. And for the last several weeks, he’s been trying to keep one more secret — perhaps his biggest — about his future plans.

“You’re right,’’ he said. “I literally have been inundated,” he reluctantly acknowledged, almost embarrassed, when we spoke Monday. “People have talked to me about some very large companies and some digital technology companies. Obviously, I can’t say from a confidentiality standpoint.”

The recruiters can stop calling. On Tuesday, he will announce he has a new full-time job. Mr. Chenault, a name long synonymous with Wall Street, will soon become a staple of Silicon Valley as a venture capitalist. He will be chairman and managing director of General Catalyst Partners, one of the most successful venture firms of the past two decades, with stakes in companies like Airbnb, Snap, Stripe and Warby Parker.

Mr. Chenault ‘s choice to jump into the world of start-ups is more than just a business decision; to him, it is an opportunity to have a larger impact on Silicon Valley and its business culture.

As he assessed his opportunities, he became convinced that the tech start-up world had often come up short in meeting society’s challenges.

This area, he said, is where he hopes he can have an impact.

Consider Mr. Chenault some much-needed adult supervision.

“What I think is happening right now in the digital space is a maturation cycle and some people, as we’ve seen, are going to handle that well and some people are going to crash and burn,” he said, without naming names.

Of course, he could be talking about any of a host of companies, like Uber, Google or Facebook, the latter of which is facing a revolt among consumers and possibly regulators over the way fake news proliferates on its site.

Venture capital firms themselves are not exempt from these problems, as my colleague Katie Benner chronicled last summer with a striking exposé of harassment by powerful investors.

“Given their age and the scale and size and impact that they can have on our society, unless they make a step up, we are going to have some serious problems,’’ Mr. Chenault said. “And we do have serious problems.”

“Companies are starting to realize that they are growing up, and in growing up, they have to assume some broader responsibilities,” he added. “Companies are at different stages, from a self awareness standpoint, in accepting that reality.”

Mr. Chenault’s management skills may be a perfect fit for the role General Catalyst needs him to fill. As start-ups are staying private longer, venture capital firms are finding that someone has to actually run the companies they invest in, to think beyond the early stages of fast growth — and a quick sale or initial public offering — and to help them scale over a decade.

“The median time to I.P.O. has risen dramatically over the last decade, from 4.9 years in 2006 to 8.3 years in 2016,” according to a report from Pitchbook, a data company that tracks deals. Airbnb has been private for 10 years, Uber for nine.

When Mr. Chenault joined Airbnb’s board last week, a company co-founder, Brian Chesky, whom Mr. Chenault has mentored for years, wrote a note to employees announcing the appointment. “Many companies are designed to be finite,’’ Mr. Chesky wrote. “Finite companies are focused on beating their competitors and appeasing short-term interests. But business is not finite. Unlike sports, there is no time clock, so there can be no winning or losing — there is merely surviving and innovating to endure.”

Mr. Chenault believes there is real value in trying to influence start-ups early in their life cycle, so that patience and foresight become embedded in the DNA.

One problem Mr. Chenault wants to address — conspicuous to anyone paying attention, but bafflingly inconspicuous to those in the Valley — is the lack of diversity, both in gender and race, in the tech industry.

“Diversity in the technology digital industry is a big issue,” he said. “If we don’t make accelerated progress in that area, it will have dire consequences for our society.”

It is even worse in the venture capital industry, where there are few women and even fewer African-Americans.

The numbers are embarrassing and depressing: African-Americans make up only 3 percent of the venture capital work force, according to a study conducted in 2016 by the National Venture Capital Association and Deloitte University Leadership Center for Inclusion. Latinos represented only 4 percent of the venture capital industry.

Mr. Chenault said he has known some of founding partners at General Catalyst for more than 20 years, including David Fialkow and Joel Cutler, who have been business partners since they met as children at Camp Cedar (a summer camp in Maine that I also attended). The fund, which has some $3.75 billion, was founded in Cambridge, Mass., in 1999 and has offices in New York; Palo Alto, Calif.; and San Francisco. Mr. Chenault said he would be based in New York.

In addition to Facebook and Airbnb, he is also on the boards of IBM and Procter & Gamble, which gives him insight into what’s going on in the economy. He acknowledged that there might be times he has to recuse himself from dealing with board issues that conflict with one of the investments General Catalyst makes.

But at this stage of his career, he believes a move to venture capital is the right “vehicle’’ to try to make a difference. Mr. Chenault hopes to help companies not just make long-term plans, but to think about their role in society.

“Venture capital firms have to be more catalytic agents of change not just in the business development,” he said, “but in helping change the culture in the technology digital sector so there is a greater focus on the responsibilities they have.”

Can private businesses solve public policy problems better than the government? It’s a question that has persisted for decades and taken on new resonance now that a career businessman is in the White House.

There has never been a clear answer. For every sign of success — a smooth privatized toll road or a gleaming charter school — there have been obstacles revealing just how difficult public works can be.

But companies haven’t stopped trying. Just this past week, the ambitions reached new heights when three of today’s most successful business leaders said they would form an independent company aimed at lowering the burden that health care places on the economy while improving the system for their employees.

In a brief statement that provided virtually no details, the chief executives of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase said they were fed up with the state of the health care system, and were convinced they could do better themselves.

“The ballooning costs of health care act as a hungry tapeworm on the American economy,” said Warren E. Buffett, the head of Berkshire Hathaway. “Our group does not come to this problem with answers. But we also do not accept it as inevitable.”

Joining Mr. Buffett were Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan. Together, the three men have revolutionized industries, forged empires and navigated all manner of crises. But can they fix health care?

In announcing they would try, they delivered an implicit rebuke of the complex and costly American health care system, suggesting that the best minds in business could do better.

“Companies are now thinking much more about how to solve larger social problems,” said Aaron Chatterji, a professor at Duke University’s Fuqua School of Business. “When Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan, three leaders in their industries, looked around, they realized that health care is a big issue facing them all.”

Their efforts stem from a feeling that, with partisan bickering and constant campaigning consuming Washington, the onus is on businesses to fill the void left by an ineffective government.

Timothy D. Cook, the chief executive of Apple, acknowledged recently that a new imperative was challenging corporations. Government has “become less functional and isn’t working at the speed that it once was,” he told The New York Times last year. “And so it does fall, I think, not just on business but on all other areas of society to step up.”

The notion that big business might shape government policy is nothing new, of course. Lobbyists have been working to sway lawmakers for decades, and the corporate world was an influential force in the tax overhaul passed last year.

Yet for the most part, these efforts were narrowly aligned with a company’s self-interest, usually in the form of lowering taxes and loosening regulations. And rarely have business leaders tried to assume operational control of a government function, let alone something as complex and unwieldy as health care.

In recent years, however, more chief executives have begun speaking out on issues that at first glance have little to do with the bottom line, including immigration policy, climate change and gay rights.

Corporate leaders have banded together to protest laws targeting transgender and gay rights in Indiana, North Carolina and Texas. And last year, as President Trump rolled out strict immigration rules, executives spoke out against the effort, with some, like the Google co-founder Sergey Brin, joining protesters at airports.

“The lack of leadership on the national political level has left this vacuum,” said Kathleen Clark, a professor at the Washington University Law school. “Fortunately, there are some business leaders who see that there’s a role for them to play.”

The most vivid expression of this new willingness to speak out came last summer after white supremacists marched on Charlottesville, Va., and Mr. Trump equivocated in his response to the violence.

In a matter of days, top executives at the nation’s largest companies issued statements condemning racism and denouncing Mr. Trump’s response, and the president’s business advisory councils were disbanded.

Chief executives may seem like unlikely ethical leaders; Wells Fargo, Equifax, Uber and many more companies have faced questions from Congress about practices that have harmed consumers and in some instances cost taxpayers billions of dollars.

But companies have also been wading into moral debates for decades. General Motors and Pepsi pulled out of South Africa during the apartheid era. Apple, Disney and Xerox were early in extending health care benefits to gay and lesbian couples.

Similar efforts by chief executives today recall “an earlier era of corporate statesmanship,” said Lee Drutman, a fellow at New America, a research and policy institute. “A lot of these business leaders viewed a business as having a somewhat broader public mission.”

Now, he said, thanks to “the rise, over the last 15 years, of the importance of social responsibly and social mission, there is a broad movement in business.”

Even Amazon’s much-publicized efforts to select a city for a second headquarters could, in a roundabout way, influence local policymakers. Given that the company is unlikely to set up shop in a state with socially conservative laws that might alienate some employees, “Amazon could have an effect not just on prices but on what legislators pass,” Mr. Chatterji said.

Other examples of ambitious efforts by top executives to tackle social problems aren’t hard to find. Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, made an ill-fated attempt to reform the public schools of Newark, N.J. Elon Musk has audacious plans to build a futuristic high-speed transportation network connecting cities in the Northeast. And billionaires across the political spectrum — from Tom Steyer on the left to the Koch brothers on the right — are spending heavily to sway public policy to their liking.

The wealthiest corporate titans are also using their philanthropy to shape public policy, in the United States and beyond. Microsoft’s co-founder Bill Gates, through the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, is working on myriad initiatives that might plausibly be done by governments, including efforts to curb tobacco use, slow the spread of H.I.V. and improve education in Washington State.

George Soros, through his Open Society Foundations, has been promoting democratic ideals around the globe. And Mr. Zuckerberg, through the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, is working on ambitious long-term projects involving science, education and justice.

There is a big difference, though, between supporting social causes and research and operating a sprawling public works system. Critics will contend that some of these efforts smack of arrogance, and that businesses ought to stay in their lane and focus on offering excellent products and services, not meddle in public policy.

“There is this hubris, thinking that they can do it better,” Mr. Chatterji said.

There is also a certain irony to the fact that Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan said the new company they had formed would be “free from profit-making incentives and constraints.”

The profit motive, after all, is what leads to efficiency and innovation, according to conventional business school wisdom. Operating as a nonprofit “flies in the face of the logic of the capitalist economy,” Mr. Chatterji said.

It most likely will take years to determine if the three companies can make good on their promise of building a better health care system. Even if they succeed, the rewards may be limited to their employees — a large figure, but a small portion of the American work force.

Nonetheless, the companies’ push is among the most audacious efforts by the private sector to date, and Mr. Dimon did not shy away from the scope of their ambition.

“The three of our companies have extraordinary resources,” he said on Tuesday when the initiative was announced. “Our goal is to create solutions that benefit our U.S. employees, their families and, potentially, all Americans.”

 (Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• President Trump is set to visit Capitol Hill today to discuss a Republican plan for the most sweeping tax overhaul in decades.

But the proposal’s supporters say they’re concerned that the president will undermine the effort. On Monday, Mr. Trump said he would oppose reducing the amount that Americans can save in 401(k) retirement accounts, which had been one of the ideas to help pay for a $1.5 trillion tax cut.

• Here are six ways Congress could fund such a cut.

• YouTube, the world’s most visited video site, played a crucial role in helping build and expand RT, which U.S. intelligence agencies say is the Kremlin’s “principal international propaganda outlet.”

As investigators examine Russian interference in U.S. politics, the once-cozy relationship between YouTube, which is owned by Google, and RT is drawing closer scrutiny.

• An editor at RT explained the news channel’s primary aim: “Where relevant, RT does present a Russian perspective on current events, but we don’t promote the Russian point of view, we explain it alongside with presenting others.”

• “What on earth would justify that amount? What awfulness went on?”

On Monday, the NBC host remarked on the $32 million that her former Fox News colleague Bill O’Reilly had paid to settle sexual harassment allegations.

• Ms. Kelly, whose new show has gotten off to a rough start in the ratings, also shared part of an email that she sent to Fox News executives in November complaining about Mr. O’Reilly’s behavior.

• It’s been more than two decades since South Africa’s majority black population gained a voice in the government.

But our correspondent Peter Goodman reports that political liberation has not translated into broad material gains.

• “I’ve gone from a shack to a shack,” one South African said of a country where less than half of the working-age population is officially employed. “I’m fighting for everything I have. You still are living in apartheid.”

In today’s show, we discuss changes to the regulation of toxic chemicals under President Trump, as shown by the shifting powers of two women.

Listen on a computer, an iOS device or an Android device.

• Tech’s biggest companies are placing huge bets on artificial intelligence, sometimes paying Ph.D.s fresh out of school or people with just a few years of experience  $500,000 a year or more.

• 238 proposals to be No. 2: Amazon said bidders to be the home of its proposed second headquarters came from 43 U.S. states, and from Canada and Mexico. It will name the winner next year.

• China’s Communist Party is increasingly asserting authority over business leaders, weakening their drive to invest and eroding confidence in the country.

• New York’s attorney general is investigating the Weinstein Company on civil rights grounds after its co-founder Harvey Weinstein was accused of sexual misconduct.

Separately, the New Orleans restaurateur John Besh is stepping down from his company after more than two dozen female employees reported sexual harassment.

• U.S. stocks were down on Monday. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Learn simple methods to be better at remembering.

• Here are five ways to protect yourself against wedding catastrophes.

• Recipe of the day: How to make the perfect bowl of soup.

In today’s 360 video, take in a performance of Thomas Adès’s “The Exterminating Angel” which includes everything from tiny violins to slamming doors.

Writers from across the political spectrum discuss the controversy over President Trump’s condolence call to the widow of a fallen U.S. soldier.

The MetroCard is on its way out.

Starting late next year, New Yorkers will be able to pay transit fares using a cellphone or credit card.

Using Google Earth, archaeologists have uncovered nearly 400 previously undocumented stone structures they call “gates” in the Saudi Arabian desert.

They believe the structures may have been built by nomadic tribes thousands of years ago.

This is the first time since 1970 that the two teams in the World Series each won more than 100 games during the regular season.

Game 1 between the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Houston Astros is tonight. Our baseball columnist, Tyler Kepner, previews the series.

Trevor Noah was unimpressed after John Kelly, the White House chief of staff, called Rep. Frederica Wilson an “empty barrel.”

“Where I come from, you don’t call someone an empty barrel. Because no one knows what that means,” Mr. Noah said.

“I heard him stumbling on trying to remember my husband’s name. And that’s what hurt me the most because if my husband is out here fighting for our country, and he risked his life for our country, why can’t you remember his name?”

— Myeshia Johnson, describing the call she received from President Trump after her husband, Sgt. La David Johnson, was killed in Niger.

It’s a New York Times job that sounds even more fun than writing the Morning Briefing: Every year, our Travel section recommends 52 Places to Go. We’re looking to hire a correspondent to visit every destination on the list. Here’s how to apply.

The Olympic torch was lit today in Greece, beginning the countdown to the next Winter Games.

The flame will travel more than 5,000 miles east to South Korea, arriving Nov. 1 — 100 days before the 2018 Olympics begin.

Starting in the city of Incheon, the torch will cross South Korea, with stops in nine provinces and eight major cities, before arriving in Pyeongchang for the opening ceremony on Feb. 9.

The lighting of the torch goes back to the ancient games, but the Olympic flame made its first modern appearance at the 1928 Games in Amsterdam. The relay began with the 1936 Games in Berlin.

The torch itself is designed by the host country. The Times noted in 2010: “The modern Olympic Games have become as much a global contest among designers and architects as among athletes. Each Olympics is expected to produce a logo, a signature building — and a characteristic torch that symbolizes local tradition and national character.”

The torch for the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul featured a bright metal body and Korean graphic elements. The five-pronged shape of the 2018 torch represents the Korean symbol for Pyeongchang.

Inyoung Kang contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern and updated all morning. Browse past briefings here. 

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at briefing@nytimes.com.

You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Sunday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.

Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• The fallout from the Presidents Club dinner is growing.

• An awkward dinner shared by Travis Kalanick and Dara Khosrowshahi at the World Economic Forum.

• Qualcomm’s big fine by the E.U.

• Tech giants’ struggles in Washington.

• The fight atop Och-Ziff.

• Katerra, a construction start-up, wins the backing of the SoftBank Vision Fund.

Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.

The Presidents Club dinner was a little-known charity event held at the posh Dorchester Hotel until yesterday, when the FT published a scathing investigation into the all-male-attendee event. What the news outlet discovered from its undercover reporting was what it described as a bacchanalia filled with drinking — and the groping of women hostesses.

From the article by Madison Marriage, who said she, while working undercover, had been harassed:

Here’s what Anne Milton, an education minister, said of the event in a session of Parliament today:

The responses 

• The Presidents Club said that it would not host any more events.

• WPP, which had bought a table at the event over the years, said early today that it had ended its association with the event.

• An organizer of the event, the businessman David Meller, has stepped down from a nonexecutive chairman position at the Department of Education.

• British lawmakers demanded that companies that had attended the event publish their employee gender ratios quickly.

• The Bank of England said that Mark Carney would not follow through on a lunch that was auctioned off at the dinner.

• Reporters began looking into the charity’s public financial reports, and were left unimpressed:

• Britain’s charity overseer has begun an investigation into the allegations of sexual harassment.

— Michael J. de la Merced

Here at Davos, people are buzzing about businesses’ need to do good for society. (There’s an Equality Lounge on site at the World Economic Forum, and attendees are still talking about BlackRock’s new initiative.) And the singer Usher is here for a celebration of what would have been Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday.

Travis Kalanick is at the World Economic Forum. He doesn’t have an official attendee badge, but he made the rounds at dinners and parties last night.

Of course, officially invited is Uber’s current C.E.O., Dara Khosrowshahi, who was on a panel discussion that Andrew moderated yesterday. (Mr. Khosrowshahi told CNBC that his relationship with his predecessor was “fine, but strained.”)

Where it got awkward: Both men attended a dinner hosted by Jack Ma of Alibaba, according to our spies. They sat on opposite ends of the table.

More from the Swiss Alps

• As President Trump prepares to fly to the World Economic Forum, he is likely to feel vindicated coming to a club of elites that had long scorned him. (NYT)

• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that a weaker dollar is a good thing. (CNBC)

• The #MeToo movement has sparked new discussions on gender equality. (NYT)

• Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India urged attendees to embrace globalization and fight climate change. He is one of several world leaders expected to push back against Mr. Trump’s more nationalistic agenda. (NYT)

• China’s point person here is Liu He, the architect of his government’s economic policy. (Bloomberg)

• David Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group is worried that people aren’t worried. (CNBC)

• The fashion industry is shaping the agenda of the World Economic Forum. (NYT)

The slide in the American dollar gained momentum Wednesday after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a weaker dollar was good for the United States.

Robert Rubin, who served as Treasury Secretary in the Clinton Administration, was sharply critical of Mr. Mnuchin’s comments.

“I’ve always felt that our self interest was in having a strong dollar,” Mr. Rubin said in an interview in his office at the Council on Foreign Relations, where he is chairman emeritus.

The best way for United States companies to compete globally, Mr. Rubin said, is for them to be “productive, efficient, and effective.” And the best way for the government to help them do that, he said, is through investments in education, infrastructure and other programs that improve the country’s long-term competitiveness.

“Promote our ability to export by our investments in our economy,” Mr. Rubin said, “not by weakening our terms of trade.”

Abandoning the United States’ longstanding strong-dollar policy, Mr. Rubin said, would carry risks to both the United States economy and the global financial system.

“A loss of confidence in our currency could also undermine our interest rate markets and our equities markets,” he said. A strong-dollar policy, by contrast, will “maintain the confidence of the world in our currency and our economy.”

— Ben Casselman

The big fine from European antitrust regulators bolsters Margrethe Vestager’s standing as perhaps the world’s most aggressive overseer of tech companies.

More from Chad Bray of the NYT:

The Democratic Party once embraced Silicon Valley. But with questions arising about the power of companies like Google and Facebook — as well as the role they played in Russia’s interference with the 2016 election — politicians and activists alike are calling for tighter scrutiny and regulation.

More from Cecilia Kang and Daisuke Wakabayashi in the NYT:

(Democrats are also pressing for disclosures into whether Russian bots are helping to manipulate public opinion on Robert Mueller’s investigation.)

Meanwhile, frenemies are applying pressure. AT&T is arguing that net neutrality rules should apply to Facebook and Google if they are to be applied to broadband service providers.

The tech flyaround

• Airbnb’s C.E.O., Brian Chesky, and its C.F.O., Laurence Tosi, are increasingly disagreeing over strategy as the company prepares for a potential initial public offering next year. (The Information)

• Read Facebook’s user survey on the trustworthiness of news publications. (BuzzFeed)

• The $100 million sale of Practice Fusion, a medical records start-up, made its executives millions but left employees with nothing. (CNBC)

• The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, said that funding for the White House’s proposed border wall is off the negotiating table as Democrats and Republicans resume negotiations over the fate of the young immigrants known as Dreamers. (NYT)

• The Senate confirmed Jerome Powell as the Federal Reserve’s next chairman, by 84-13. (The Hill)

• Both Attorney General Jeff Sessions and James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, answered questions from Robert Mueller as part of the special counsel’s investigation. And Mr. Trump reportedly asked Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.’s deputy director, how he voted in the 2016 election as the White House weighed replacements for Mr. Comey. (NYT, WaPo)

• Have Mr. Trump’s solar panel tariffs endangered the industry in the U.S.? (NYT)

• Representative Patrick Meehan, Republican of Pennsylvania, denied harassing a much-younger aide but admitted that he responded poorly when he learned that she had a boyfriend. (NYT)

What was supposed to be a seamless transition from Dan Och to his heir apparent, Jimmy Levin, has become a cold war within the $33 billion hedge fund, according to the WSJ.

Now Mr. Och has indicated that he does not want the younger executive to take over. Och-Ziff is interviewing outside candidates for C.E.O. Mr. Levin is thinking about leaving. And some investors are considering withdrawing money amid the turmoil.

What happened: As Mr. Levin grew in stature, he began to press for more responsibility and money, irritating his mentor, the newspaper reported.

More from Greg Zuckerman and Rob Copeland of the WSJ:

Here’s what Disney, Verizon and JPMorgan Chase are doing:

• Disney will spend $175 million on cash bonuses and a new education initiative.

• Verizon will give out stock awards to employees that could total more than $400 million.

• JPMorgan will spend $20 billion over the next five years on hourly wage raises, bigger philanthropic giving and more bank branches in economically disadvantaged areas.

The bigger picture

From Jim Tankersley of the NYT:

The Japanese giant’s Vision Fund has led an $865 million investment in Katerra, a three-year-old construction firm. It’s the latest big bet by SoftBank.

Katerra — founded by the former Flextronics C.E.O. Michael Marks, the Silver Lake co-founder Jim Davidson and the real estate investor Fritz Wolff — is essentially a one-stop shop for offices and apartment buildings, from architectural design through actual construction.

The bigger picture: Katerra wants to go public eventually, Mr. Marks, told Michael. “Over time, we expect that we might get offers — but this is intended to stay an independent company,” he said. “This will be a public company at some point.”

• ComScore, which had been under pressure from Starboard Value, has hired Goldman Sachs to explore a sale, according to unidentified sources. (Bloomberg)

• The parent company of the dating app Bumble has hired JPMorgan Chase to run a potential sale that could value it at $1.5 billion, according to unidentified sources. (CNBC)

• JD.com is considering a public listing for its logistics business. (CNBC)

• HNA Group is seeking outside investors for two Hong Kong properties that it bought last year for $1.8 billion. (Bloomberg)

The next big growth could be in Bitcoin spinoffs in which developers clone Bitcoin software, release it with a new name, a new coin and perhaps new features. The clones have included Bitcoin God and Bitcoin Pizza.

More on the phenomenon from Olga Kharif of Bloomberg:

In other virtual currency news: Stripe is ditching Bitcoin as a payment method. And here’s a profile of Brandon Chez, the man behind CoinMarketCap.com, a top source of market data for digital currencies.

• Anthony Noto is leaving Twitter to become SoFi’s C.E.O. Shares in the social media company fell 2.5 percent after the announcement. (NYT)

• Facebook’s chief marketing officer, Gary Briggs, is retiring to advise companies like Lending Club and to become more active helping Democrats in upcoming elections. (Recode)

• Uber has hired Bo Young Lee from the financial services firm Marsh as its first chief diversity officer. (Recode)

— Overheard by a DealBook tipster at Davos.

• Donations are being pulled by the likes of WPP from the Presidents Club Charitable Trust after an FT investigation revealed sexual harassment of women at its men-only charity dinner. (FT, FT)

• Companies in France have not waited to take advantage of new rules in the country’s labor overhaul that make it easier to hire and fire employees. But other changes designed to cushion the blow, like retraining programs, have not yet been put into place. (NYT)

• Steve Varsano — the owner of Jet Business, whose retail space in London is the world’s only walk-in storefront jet dealership — sees President Trump’s election as a harbinger of great things for his industry. (NYT)

• When it comes to fighting climate change, the idea that countries can be cajoled into cutting emissions further or that laggards can be shamed into falling into line is just wishful thinking, Eduardo Porter writes. (NYT)

• Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies and Kleenex, is laying off about 13 percent of its work force and shedding factories amid declining birthrates and a retail price war. (NYT)

• Toys “R” Us plans to close about 180 stores in the United States as it seeks to exit from bankruptcy proceedings. (WSJ)

• The Department of Education plans to offer students prepaid bank cards that would hold loan money that is not needed for tuition, giving the government and financial services providers a peek at students’ spending. (NYT)

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

The F.B.I. clashes with President Trump, Africa’s first bobsled team prepares for the Olympics and “House of Cards” returns. Here’s the news:

• In Washington, the F.B.I. clashed publicly with President Trump for the first time over Republican efforts to release a secret memo that purports to show surveillance abuses.

The aim of the memo, our Washington correspondent writes, is defending Mr. Trump from the Russia inquiry. Meanwhile, we learned that a White House statement last summer about a pre-election Trump Tower meeting with Russians has drawn the interest of investigators.

(Above, Mr. Trump with Attorney General Jeff Sessions, center, and the director of the F.B.I., Christopher Wray.)

Our correspondents gauged the reaction to Mr. Trump’s first State of the Union address among a wide spectrum of Americans. One viewer put it this way: “I’m happy with him and I’m embarrassed by him at the same time.”

_____

• Britain’s welfare state is crumbling.

The country pioneered the outsourcing of social services, but nearly a decade of austerity budgets and declining funding has badly strained the system. “The model is flawed, it’s broken,” one social policy expert said.

Separately, the BBC is facing a reckoning as scores of employees have filed complaints over gender inequities in pay and lawmakers have demanded change.

And Prime Minister Theresa May’s efforts to promote trade on her visit to China are shadowed by uncertainties about her hold on power and the country’s withdrawal from the European Union.

_____

• Just as global sports officials are preparing to travel to South Korea for the Winter Olympics, we obtained a subpoena showing that the U.S. is investigating international sports corruption.

Prosecutors are seeking information from FIFA and the International Olympic Committee.

In a lighter vein, Times Magazine writers explore how a top skier trains, how curling went subtropical and why Koreans excel at speedskating. They also profile Nigeria’s bobsled team, above. It is Africa’s first.

And tag along with our Moscow correspondent to the snowy Caucasus, where new ski resorts are part of an improbable effort by Russia to ski and snowboard its way out of a long-simmering Islamist insurgency.

_____

• Two performances that reflect major debates in Europe:

In Hungary, conservative columnists have rallied behind a Budapest production of “Porgy and Bess” against criticism that it did not respect the wishes of its creators to use only black performers. (The opera, above, has been transplanted to a refugee camp.)

Meanwhile in London, a show by the theatermaker Javaad Alipoor invites the audience to join a messaging group to explore themes of ideological radicalism and masculinity.

_____

• With Valentine’s Day fast approaching, we are looking for couples who have dealt with the struggles or triumphs of dating someone with opposing political beliefs. Tell us your story.

• For too long, the digital ad business has been underregulated and underpoliced, our columnist writes. We’re now dealing with the consequences, like Russian propaganda and tech addiction.

• German carmakers are struggling to squelch a public outcry over emissions experiments on monkeys.

• A growing number of virtual currency investors are worried that the price of Bitcoin has been inflated by Bitfinex, a widely used exchange.

• Economists studying how changes in the nature of work fueled Western populism warn of another wave of disruption: artificial intelligence.

•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• In Moscow, two associates of Aleksei Navalny, the opposition leader, were sentenced to prison after returning from Lithuania, where they had hosted a webcast about nationwide protests in Russia. [The New York Times]

• An Istanbul court ordered the release of Amnesty International’s top representative in Turkey, one of the country’s most prominent political prisoners. [The New York Times]

• In an Op-Ed, a columnist argues that only talks between the Turkish president and the imprisoned Kurdish leader, Abdullah Ocalan, could lead to peace. [The New York Times]

• In Poland, lawmakers approved draft legislation that would outlaw blaming Poles for the crimes of the Holocaust. [Reuters]

• Tariq Ramadan, a renowned scholar of Islam, is said to have been questioned in France over two allegations of sexual assault. [France 24]

• The United Nations human rights office is examining more than 200 companies over their involvement with Israeli settlements in the West Bank, which are considered illegal under international law. [The New York Times]

• In Ukraine, the prosecutor general is the latest high-profile official to cause a stir by going on a luxurious vacation few civil servants could afford. [Kyiv Post]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• If you haven’t cooked with gochujang, the spicy Korean condiment, start with this braised chicken dinner.

• More kitchen advice: Learn the best ways to cut almost anything (without hurting yourself).

• Bring positive energy into your home, no matter how tight the space.

• Mural painting in the U.S. used to be unfashionable. But today, thanks to Instagram and hipster culture, it’s a growing business with boldface sponsors.

• Not long ago, the Norwegian midfielder Martin Odegaard was European soccer’s next big thing. But the road to the top, our correspondent found, is not always straight.

• Europe’s premier concert halls have sent a group of promising young musicians on tour. The venerable institutions may benefit as much as the up-and-comers.

• New research on the Dutch Hunger Winter of 1944 suggests that prenatal trauma can influence health across lifetimes.

• “House of Cards,” the Netflix drama, is back in production with a revamped cast.

• We asked readers of the generation after millennials to pick a name. Thousands responded. “Don’t call us anything,” one reader wrote. “The whole notion of cohesive generations is nonsense.”

On this day in 1887, Harvey Wilcox, a real-estate developer from Kansas, filed a plan with Los Angeles County for a small, gridded subdivision that he called Hollywood. (The origin of the name is disputed.)

Over the next decade, Mr. Wilcox and his wife, Daeida, conjured out of the desert a strict Christian utopia of orchards and Victorian cottages, connected to nearby Los Angeles by a lone streetcar line.

There were just a few hundred residents, and the hamlet banned alcohol, bowling alleys and, even briefly in 1910, movie theaters. But the same year, Hollywood voted to merge into Los Angeles.

Soon, movie studios fled the enforcement of Thomas Edison’s monopoly on film patents and started setting up shop in the ideal Southern California light.

In 1923, the Hollywoodland sign went up (it was truncated to Hollywood in 1949). Animated by the same frontier puritanism as early Hollywood, it was an illuminated billboard for a segregated housing development that called itself a fortress against “metropolitanism”; an ad urged, “Protect your family.”

The sign was left up as the so-called Golden Age of Hollywood arrived, a noirish era embodied by the starlet Peg Entwistle, who jumped to her death from the H in 1932.

Penn Bullock contributed reporting.

_____

This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.

You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

In the battle to dominate Europe’s cloud computing market, American tech giants are spending big to build up their local credibility.

Amazon Web Services, the largest player, announced last week that it would soon open multiple data centers in France and Britain. Google, which already has sites in countries like Finland and Belgium, is expected to finish a new multimillion-dollar data complex in the Netherlands by the end of the year.

And Microsoft, by some measures the second-largest cloud computing provider in Europe, said on Monday that it had spent $1 billion in the last 12 months to expand its offerings, taking its total investment in European-based cloud services to $3 billion since 2005.

“We’re building our global cloud infrastructure in Europe so it can be trusted by the multiple constituents,” Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive, said in an interview. “We can meet the data residency needs of our European customers.”

With many in Europe questioning why America’s largest tech companies control how many of the region’s 500 million citizens use everyday digital services, it is not surprising that the likes of Microsoft and Amazon are eager to play up their local roots.

As the European Union continues to clamp down on the perceived misuse of people’s digital information, analysts also say that many Silicon Valley giants are responding to these privacy concerns by increasingly offering individuals and companies the ability to keep information close to home, whereas in the past, data might have been stored solely in the United States.

“Countries like Germany are well aware of data privacy, and it has made them more wary of where data is kept,” said Gregor Petri, a cloud computing analyst at the technology research firm Gartner in Veghel, the Netherlands. “Local data sovereignty has become important, and American companies are now aware of that.”

There is also a more basic explanation for American companies’ expansion into European cloud computing: a growing amount of money to be made.

Europe’s market for so-called cloud application services, or software that is run virtually across the internet, is expected to more than double, to $16.1 billion, by the end of the decade, according to Gartner. That will still correspond to just one-third of the North American market, whose value is expected to reach $47 billion over the same period.

Despite that relatively small size, Europe’s market remains one of the largest for American cloud providers, many of which are increasing investments worldwide as companies and individuals increasingly rely on cloud-based services — such as iCloud, from Apple, and Dropbox, the online storage company — in their daily lives.

In 2014, for instance, Amazon opened a number of data centers in Germany, partly in response to that country’s strict privacy laws. Last year, Microsoft followed suit, teaming up with Deutsche Telekom — the local carrier and the owner of T-Mobile — which has control of the sites, again to comply with German legislation. (Microsoft charges a premium for the service.)

In an interview, Rainer Strassner, manager of Microsoft’s cloud program in Germany, said the country’s law protected data stored on the servers there from information requests by foreign governments, including the United States.

“All the data stays in Germany,” he said. The company recently won an appeal against the United States government, which had tried to obtain digital information held in a Microsoft data center in Ireland.

While such investments have focused primarily on business customers, other American tech companies have made similarly large investments aimed at speeding up digital services for everyday users across the 28-member European Union.

Apple, which has faced a number of European regulatory issues, including a demand that it repay $14.6 billion in back taxes to Ireland, is spending almost $2 billion building two data centers in the region. The facilities, its first such centers in Europe, will open in Denmark and Ireland by early 2018.

Facebook is also working on its own Irish cloud computing center, while expanding an existing site in Sweden.

“We’re starting deep in the forests of northern Sweden with the Lulea data center,” Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, wrote on his Facebook page on Wednesday when talking about the Facebook’s tech investments. “You probably don’t think about Lulea when you share with friends on Facebook, but it’s an example of the incredibly complex technology infrastructure that keeps the world connected.”

SAN FRANCISCO — Their complaints flow on Reddit forums, on video game message boards, on private Facebook pages and across Twitter. They argue for everything from male separatism to an end to gender diversity efforts.

Silicon Valley has for years accommodated a fringe element of men who say women are ruining the tech world.

Now, as the nation’s technology capital — long identified as one of the more hostile work environments for women — reels from a series of high-profile sexual harassment and discrimination scandals, these conversations are gaining broader traction.

One of those who said there had been a change is James Altizer, an engineer at the chip maker Nvidia. Mr. Altizer, 52, said he had realized a few years ago that feminists in Silicon Valley had formed a cabal whose goal was to subjugate men. At the time, he said, he was one of the few with that view.

Now Mr. Altizer said he was less alone. “There’s quite a few people going through that in Silicon Valley right now,” he said. “It’s exploding. It’s mostly young men, younger than me.”

Mr. Altizer said that a gathering he hosts in person and online to discuss men’s issues had grown by a few dozen members this year to more than 200, that the private Facebook pages he frequents on men’s rights were gaining new members and that a radical subculture calling for total male separatism was emerging.

“It’s a witch hunt,” he said in a phone interview, contending men are being fired by “dangerous” human resources departments. “I’m sitting in a soundproof booth right now because I’m afraid someone will hear me. When you’re discussing gender issues, it’s almost religious, the response. It’s almost zealotry.”

Mr. Altizer is part of a backlash against the women in technology movement. While many in the tech industry had previously dismissed the fringe men’s rights arguments, some investors, executives and engineers are now listening. Though studies and surveys show there is no denying the travails women face in the male-dominated industry, some said that the line for what counted as harassment had become too easy to cross and that the push for gender parity was too extreme a goal. Few were willing to talk openly about their thinking, for fear of standing out in largely progressive Silicon Valley.

Even so, “witch hunt” is the new whispered meme. Some in tech have started identifying as “contrarians,” to indicate subtly that they do not follow the “diversity dogma.” And self-described men’s rights activists in Silicon Valley said their numbers at meetings were rising.

Others are playing down the women-in-tech issue. Onstage at a recent event, the venture capitalist Vinod Khosla said harassment in Silicon Valley was “rarer than in most other businesses.”

Many men now feel like “there’s a gun to the head” to be better about gender issues, said Rebecca Lynn, a venture capitalist at Canvas Ventures, and while “there’s a high awareness right now, which is positive, at the same time there’s a fear.”

The backlash follows increasingly vulgar harassment revelations in Silicon Valley. Several female engineers and entrepreneurs this year named the men they accused of harassing them, and suddenly tech’s boys’ club seemed anything but impervious. Travis Kalanick, Uber’s co-founder, resigned as chief executive after the ride-hailing service was embroiled in harassment accusations. Dave McClure, head of the incubator 500 Startups, called himself “a creep” and stepped down. This month, the chief executive of Social Finance, Mike Cagney, also quit amid a harassment scandal.

In the aftermath, many stood up for gender equality in tech. Reid Hoffman, LinkedIn’s founder, asked investors to sign a “decency pledge.” Many companies reiterated that they needed to improve work force diversity.

“In just the last 48 hours, I’ve spoken to a female tech executive who was grabbed by a male C.E.O. at a large event and another female executive who was asked to interview at a venture fund because they ‘feel like they need to hire a woman,’” said Dick Costolo, the former chief of Twitter, who now runs the fitness start-up Chorus. “We should worry about whether the women-in-tech movement has gone too far sometime after a couple of these aren’t regularly happening anymore.”

But those who privately thought things had gone too far were given a voice by James Damore, 28, a soft-spoken Google engineer. Mr. Damore, frustrated after another diversity training, wrote a memo that he posted to an internal Google message board. In it, he argued that maybe women were not equally represented in tech because they were biologically less capable of engineering. Google fired him last month.

After months of apologizing by Silicon Valley for bad behavior, here was a young man whom some in tech’s leadership could potentially get behind.

Paul Graham, who founded an influential start-up incubator, Y Combinator, posted two articles about how the science behind Mr. Damore’s memo was accurate. Another start-up investor, John Durant, wrote that “Charles Darwin himself would be fired from Google for his views on the sexes.”

And the investor Peter Thiel’s business partner, Eric Weinstein, tweeted, “Dear @Google, Stop teaching my girl that her path to financial freedom lies not in coding but in complaining to HR.”

Mr. Durant declined to comment. Mr. Graham said in an email that there needed to be more distinction between fact and policy, and Mr. Weinstein said there was “a sea of brilliant women” and that more needed to be done to “figure out how to more fully empower them.”

Now men’s rights advocates in Silicon Valley have galvanized.

“What Google did was wake up sectors of society that weren’t into these issues before,” said Paul Elam, who runs A Voice for Men, a men’s rights group. He said his organization had seen more interest from people in Silicon Valley.

Silicon Valley has always been a men’s space, others said. Warren Farrell, who lives in Marin County, Calif., and whose 1993 book, “The Myth of Male Power,” birthed the modern men’s rights movement, said, “The less safe the environment is for men, the more they will seek little pods of safety like the tech world.”

This turn in the gender conversation is good news for Mr. Damore. “The emperor is naked,” he said in an interview. “Since someone said it, now it’s become sort of acceptable.”

He added, “The whole idea that diversity improves workplace output, it’s not scientifically decided that that’s true.”

Mr. Damore filed a labor complaint against Google in August and said more than 20 people had reached out about joining together for a class-action suit about systemic discrimination against men. He is represented by Harmeet Dhillon, a local firebrand lawyer.

“It’s become fashionable in Silicon Valley for people like James, a white man, to be put into a category of less desirable for promotion and advancement,” Ms. Dhillon said. “Some companies have hiring goals like ‘We’ll give you a bonus if you’re a hiring manager and you hire 70 percent women to this organization.’ That’s illegal.”

Google declined to comment.

Two men who worked at Yahoo sued the company for gender discrimination last year. Their lawyer, Jon Parsons, said the female leadership — Yahoo’s chief executive was Marissa Mayer, before Verizon bought the company — had gone too far in trying to hire and promote women. He tied the suit into today’s women-in-tech movement.

“When you’re on a mission from God to set the world straight, it’s easy to go too far,” Mr. Parsons said. “There was no control over women hiring women.”

He said that his clients, Greg Anderson and Scott Ard, had faced gender discrimination in Yahoo’s media teams and that other teams like cars were headed by women, which to Mr. Parsons was a sign of problems.

“No eyebrows are going to rise if a woman heads up fashion,” Mr. Parsons said. “But we’re talking about women staffing positions — things like autos — where it cannot be explained other than manipulation.”

Those leading Silicon Valley’s gender equality push said they were astonished that just as the movement was having an impact, it opened up an even more radical men’s rights perspective.

“It’s exhausting,” said Joelle Emerson, who runs Paradigm, a company that designs diversity strategies. “It’s created divides that I didn’t anticipate.”

One radical fringe that is growing is Mgtow, which stands for Men Going Their Own Way and pronounced MIG-tow. Mgtow aims for total male separatism, including forgoing children, avoiding marriage and limiting involvement with women. Its message boards are brimming with activity from Silicon Valley, Mr. Altizer said.

Cassie Jaye, who lives in Marin County and made a documentary about the men’s rights movement called “The Red Pill,” said that the tech world and the men’s rights community had “snowballed” together and that the rise in the number of people in Mgtow is new.

On the Mgtow message boards, members discuss work (“Ever work for a woman? Roll up your sleeves and share your horror story”), technology (“The stuff girlfriends and wives can’t stand — computers, games, consoles”) and dating (mostly best practices to avoid commitment).

“I think there are a lot of guys living this lifestyle without naming it, and then they find Mgtow,” said Ms. Jaye, who calls herself a former feminist.

Mr. Altizer leads Bay Area Fathers’ Rights, a monthly support group for men to talk about the issues they uniquely face. He became interested in the community after a divorce and said his eyes were opened to how few rights men have. As for the numbers of women in tech, the effort for parity is absurd, he said.

“I’ve been on the hiring side for years,” Mr. Altizer said, adding that he is not currently hiring people. “It would be nice to have women, but you cannot find applicants.”