['The week I graduated from high school, a teacher presented me with a gift: a silver Cross pen engraved with my name. I was surprised and touched. I hadn’t felt particularly close to this teacher, who had instructed me in Advanced Placement history and government courses. But I did well on the A.P. exams. He felt pride in my accomplishment, and the gift was his way of expressing that.', 'When I arrived at college, I kept the fancy pen in its box in my desk and took it out only on exam days. As I scrawled in blue books, the pen provided a reminder of past success — and a small boost in confidence. I thought of it as my lucky exam pen.', 'It turns out campuses abound with good-luck charms. In informal surveys, a former Connecticut College professor, Stuart Vyse, found that 62 percent of college students reported using a lucky pen or wearing a special piece of jewelry or clothing to exams. Fifty-four percent tried to sit in the same seat for tests, and 38 percent listened to a favorite pre-exam song. When Lauren Block, a professor at Baruch College’s Zicklin School of Business, was an undergraduate, she wore a lucky pair of Nike sneakers to her exams, and she performed so well that her roommate began borrowing them to wear to big tests, too.', 'Do lucky objects actually help us perform better? If we believe in their special power, research suggests that they can. Professor Block has done experiments in which students prepared for an exam with a study guide used by a previous student. Some students were shown the grade point averages and exam scores of the people who had previously studied from the guide, and the research found that those relying on a guidebook previously used by a high performer tended to do better than others.', '“This is the first paper to show that specific abilities can transfer through contagion and impact actual performance,” Professor Block and a colleague, Thomas Kramer, wrote in a 2014 study, in which they suggested managers could harness this power by distributing objects (such as pens or computers) previously owned by star employees.', 'The same phenomenon has been observed in sports. In a 2011 study, researchers asked college golfers to execute putts from a prescribed distance. Just before the putts, half the golfers were told the club they were wielding had previously been owned by a professional golfer (it hadn’t); the others were told nothing. The result: The golfers who thought they were holding a professional’s club sank 32 percent more putts.', 'For a 2012 Harvard Business Review article, I interviewed Sally Linkenauger, a lecturer at Lancaster University who is the lead researcher on the golf study. I’m a writer, so instead I asked, “Would I write better if I used Malcolm Gladwell’s laptop?”', 'I’m a fan of Mr. Gladwell, the New Yorker writer and author of “The Tipping Point” and other books, and I wondered whether a physical talisman might improve my prose.', 'Professor Linkenauger said her team had debated similar questions, such as whether holding a pen owned by Einstein might help someone score better on a math test. Their research suggests that it could, under certain circumstances. “If it makes you more confident and motivated,” she said, “it will help you perform better.”', 'When I set out to write a book on how people can get psyched up to perform better at work, I wanted to test out the power of lucky objects. So I emailed Mr. Gladwell, whom I had met a few times when he was a young reporter, before he’d become famous. I passed along the golf club study, and told him I wanted to write a book on a keyboard that he’d typed on. To do that, I offered to ship him a new Apple keyboard. He’d use it for three months, then ship it back to me.', 'A few hours later, he responded: “Ha. That’s hilarious.” He gave me his home address. The next day, I shipped his new keyboard, along with some markers and instructions to please sign, mark or decorate the keyboard to signify it had been his.', 'Weeks passed. I checked in periodically. “Yes, I’ve been using it!” he responded. After three months, I asked him to ship it back, which he did. “I hope I have transferred some magic powers!” he wrote. Mr. Gladwell had failed to mark or sign it, but it looked well used. So I began carrying it around, plugging it into my laptop whenever I worked on my book.', 'Whatever luck or performance boost it provided came at the cost of convenience. At work, I’ve grown accustomed to typing on a special ergonomic keyboard to protect against repetitive strain injuries. The unergonomic Gladwell keyboard felt unfamiliar and uncomfortable. Carrying it around caused wear and tear: Within a few months, the down arrow key fell off.', 'Still, I got a small thrill knowing my fingers were striking the same keys as the fingers that had written “Outliers” and “Blink.” Because I don’t use it every day, pulling the Gladwell keyboard out for special occasions (like book writing) evokes some bit of emotion, similar to how I feel when I see our holiday table set with silver that belonged to my great-grandparents.', 'It can be a comfort and a pleasure to experience the power that can come from a lucky object. When imbued with the right provenance, a simple pen or keyboard may even be capable of tilting the performance odds in our favor.', 'On Friday, Oct. 13, locals in California’s Big Sur region gathered at Pfeiffer Canyon Bridge and celebrated its reopening with a ribbon-cutting ceremony. The bridge was severely damaged in early February, following a series of landslides, and rebuilt over the last seven months by the California Department of Transportation, known as Caltrans.', 'Big Sur spans a roughly 90-mile stretch of Highway 1, and the reopening of the 310-foot-long bridge is significant because without it, about 35 miles of the highway south of the bridge was closed to vehicles, said Susana Cruz, a public information officer for Caltrans. As a result, the hotels, restaurants and other attractions located along this section were either closed or struggled to maintain business as usual.', '“The bridge is the artery to tourism in Big Sur because it connects north and south Big Sur, from Carmel to the town of San Simeon, and for nearly eight months, it wasn’t there,” Ms. Cruz said.', 'Big Sur is in Monterey County and attracts many of the 4.6 million people who visit the county each year, according to Rob O’Keefe, the chief marketing officer for the Monterey County Convention & Visitors Bureau; travelers come to enjoy the spectacular vistas of the Pacific, hike among the redwoods and savor a remoteness that few destinations offer.', 'The new bridge, he said, means that visitors can once again have easy and convenient access to the area’s many attractions.', 'Some of these attractions weren’t damaged by the landslides while others were, but regardless, being open without the bridge wasn’t worthwhile, according to their owners and managers, because of their inaccessibility.', 'Ventana Big Sur, an Alila Resort, for example, reopened on Oct. 20 after being closed since the landslides in February. “Although the property wasn’t really damaged, it was very challenging for anyone to get here, so we decided not to stay open,” said Kristina Jetton, the resort’s general manager.', 'During the closure, Ventana underwent a renovation and introduced refurbished rooms, a new bar with views of the coastline and an expanded spa. The resort also introduced an option for upscale camping with 15 safari-style canvas tents amid redwood trees.', 'Unlike Ventana, Deetjen’s Big Sur Inn, a hotel and restaurant, did see damage from the landslides: general manager Matt Glazer said that four of the property’s 20 rooms were destroyed. The hotel reopened the day after the new bridge was inaugurated, but Mr. Glazer said that the damaged rooms have not yet been rebuilt. “We haven’t begun reconstruction because construction vehicles couldn’t get to the property, but we’re fully operational with 16 rooms and serving daily breakfast and dinner,” he said.', 'Pfeiffer Beach, too, reopened on Oct. 14 to coincide with the new bridge. Known for its soft purple sand and photogenic sunsets, the beach is an ideal spot for picnics and long walks and is a favorite of photographers, said Mr. O’Keefe.', 'Some businesses south of the bridge were open for at least some portion of the time when the bridge was closed. Visitors were able to reach them in one of two ways: they either hiked a steep half-mile temporary trail through Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park, which circumvented the bridge. Or they drove via a detour on Nacimiento-Fergusson Road, a remote route with no cell service, gas stations or other services; the road added between an hour to three hours of driving time to reach destinations off Highway 1, said Ms. Cruz of Caltrans. (Brent Marshall, the Monterey district superintendent for California State Parks, said that now that Pfeiffer Canyon Bridge is open, the trail will close to hikers within the next several months.)', 'But many of these establishments were affected by the lack of tourists in the area.', 'Post Ranch Inn, a 40-room luxury hotel, for example, reopened in late April, after being closed since mid-February. Mike Freed, the property’s managing partner, said that he chose to open because he wanted to keep his staff employed. “These locals are dependent on income from the hotel to survive,” he said. In an attempt to give guests an incentive to stay and offer them quick access to Post Ranch, he started a helicopter service, for a fee, to the property from Monterey Regional Airport.', 'The hotel’s occupancy level with the helicopter service was around 60 percent, compared with its norm of close to 100 percent throughout the year.', '“People were put off from coming to Big Sur,” Mr. Freed said. “They want to be here when everything is open.”', 'Nepenthe, a restaurant with water views that dates to 1949 and is considered a Big Sur landmark, was also open over the last several months, but as was the case with Post Ranch, business was a challenge, according to owner Kirk Gafill. “It was nearly impossible for people to get to us and also for supplies to reach us,” he said.', 'The restaurant saw an average of 350 diners a day over the summer, compared to its usual average of 1,000 diners. Since the new bridge opened, however, Mr. Gafill said that about 900 people a day have dined at Nepenthe, compared with the daily fall season average of 750 people. “There’s been a pent-up demand so we’re seeing more people than we usually would in October,” he said.', 'But not every attraction in Big Sur is open quite yet: hiking and camping are popular activities in the area, and while most campsites within the region’s several state parks are welcoming campers, including sites in Pfeiffer Big Sur State Park and Andrew Molera State Park, most of the hiking trails within them remain closed, said Mr. Marshall of California State Parks. “These trails are severely damaged from the landslides and we don’t expect many of them to reopen until the spring,” he said. “The full recovery process will take years.” (Visitors should check the California State Parks website for updates.)', 'Big Sur Bakery, a popular bakery and restaurant, is still closed, but owner Mike Gilson said that he anticipates opening within the next few weeks. “We lost some employees over the last few months because most lived north of the bridge, but now that it’s open, they’re coming back,” he said.', 'With much of Big Sur back on its feet, hotel and restaurant owners said that they look forward to a return to normalcy. The last helicopter ride to Post Ranch happened the same afternoon that Pfeiffer Canyon Bridge reopened. In the days that followed, Mr. Freed said, the property had a large number of reservations and is nearly booked to capacity for much of November. “I’m relieved and excited that travelers are coming back here,” he said.', 'More information about what’s open in Big Sur and what’s not can be found on the Monterey County Convention & Visitors Bureau site, seemonterey.com/resources/travel-alert/.', 'At the entrance to the Rosemead, Calif., headquarters of Panda Restaurant Group, the parent company of Panda Express, Panda Inn and Hibachi-San, the artist Robert Indiana’s “LOVE” sculpture was recently unveiled.', 'The 12-foot-high multi-million-dollar installation, with those four bright red letters made of aluminum, perches atop a fountain of flowing water. It was a private donation by the company’s co-founders and co-chief executive officers, Andrew and Peggy Cherng.', 'The sculpture’s message resonates with the Cherngs, who have spent the last 45 years building a Chinese restaurant empire that produced sales in excess of $3 billion last year, with over 2,000 Panda Express restaurants in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Japan, South Korea, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Guatemala, and Aruba. Those restaurants each average about 480 guests on a given day, and the Cherngs employ more than 35,000 associates.', '“We are building a culture on trust, and the aim of trust is love,” said Ms. Cherng, 70. “Love is the verb we emphasize with our Panda family. We must respect and care for each other. We must push and stretch each other.”', 'Associates who work in Panda Express restaurants wear uniforms with the Chinese proverb: “Make happy those who are near and those who are far will come.”', '“When I saw the ‘LOVE’ sculpture, it made me think life is tough, life is difficult,” said Mr. Cherng, 70. “Life is something you really have to face squarely on. It is about overcoming the difficulty. Continuously working on improvement — that to me is the happiness, love is about that.”', 'Although the road to success has not always been a smooth one — there have been some legal disputes with employees — the Cherng’s overall approach seems to have worked. Since 2005, the chain has more than doubled in size, with roughly 150 stores opening each year, Mr. Cherng said. And the company has had consecutive same-store-sales growth for 21 of the last 22 years.', 'Its best-selling dish: orange chicken. This year, customers will buy an estimated 90 million pounds of the lightly sweetened fried chicken. And last year, Panda Express purchased 22 million pounds of broccoli.', 'The Cherngs have routinely shunned opportunities to grow even faster by franchising locations, or to reap the reward for their achievement by selling shares of their company to the public. They choose to own and operate all their restaurants with the exception of a few select locations.', '“The motivation of going public is really a financial play,” Mr. Cherng said. “Maybe you need to raise money to open more stores, or sometimes people go public because they want to have a little bit more money. We have always been able to grow anyway.”', 'The family-owned and operated company has richly provided for the Cherngs, who have a net worth of $3.3 billion, according to Forbes.', '“The beauty of not being franchised, or not being public is you have control,” said Bonnie Riggs, a restaurant industry analyst for The NPD Group’s food-service division. “You have consistency. When you have a franchise operation, even though rules are put in place, the franchisees don’t always play along. And if you are public, then you are constantly having to answer to Wall Street, and it’s a challenge.”', 'And holding on to what you’ve built over decades has a psychological appeal. “It is a business, but it is also tied to their personal identity,” said Rob Lachenauer, a partner and chief executive officer at BanyanGlobal Family Business Advisors in Boston, Mass. “One, you are not going to sell your identity. Two, it is hard to step away from the business because you are stepping away from who you are.”', 'Many family-owned businesses are creating a multigenerational business, Mr. Lachenauer said. “They are not a Silicon Valley start-up trying to pop something in five years and then go to the beach. That speaks to trust because of the stability of a long-term investment that most families have in their businesses. It builds loyalty with their employees.”', 'Another upside: “When you’re a satisfied employee, you’re going to provide your customers good service,” Ms. Riggs said. “If you enjoy what you are doing, and you like management, and you are not a disgruntled employee, that is going to come across in spades to the consumer. In our industry, today, it is sorely lacking.”', 'The Cherngs repay that trust to their employees by allowing them to run the individual restaurants, even if they do not have the full responsibility that a franchisee would have, and to hold prominent roles on the top management team.', 'One of their three daughters, Andrea, 40, is the chief marketing officer, but there are nonfamily members in the senior ranks of the company, including the general counsel and senior vice president for international development, and the senior vice president of operations and licensing.', 'Even with their command and control approach, however, the Cherngs’ have encountered some rough spots in employee relations.', 'In recent years, a number of lawsuits have been filed. One, for example, was on behalf of a group of general managers who claimed that their positions were wrongfully classified as exempt from overtime; a settlement was reached in that case. In another, the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission charged that the company was treating its Latino employees differently from Asian workers at one restaurant. In California, a suit claimed cashiers and workers did not have seating while they were on duty. And last June, Panda Express settled a claim that it discriminated against workers who weren’t American citizens.', 'The company did not comment directly on the suits.', 'In a statement, Ms. Cherng said, “People are the foundation for what we do and what we believe in. We practice continuous learning to understand how we can be an employer of choice, which includes additional training and systems to reinforce our core values. Our hope is to foster a relationship of mutual trust and love with our associates.”', 'Typically the Cherngs pay their mangers well to compensate for what are typically 50-plus hour weeks, according to employee reviews on Glassdoor.com. Store associates are eligible for bonuses. General managers can make $100,000 or more with bonuses. The firm also offers a stock option program that includes dividends. The company provides subsidized health care coverage to all its employees, including part-time workers who work over 30 hours, after six months.', 'The Cherngs attribute much of their success to their core beliefs. “Life is more than just for yourself,” Mr. Cherng said. “You want to do well for family, to take care of other people, other causes — that is where happinesses are.”', 'That leads to another aspect of the Cherngs’ business strategy: philanthropy. The Cherngs giving over the years between all their philanthropic efforts is in excess of $83 million.', 'Through their giving organizations — Panda Cares, the philanthropic arm of the Panda Restaurant Group, and Panda Charitable Foundation — the Cherngs give chiefly within the areas of education, youth leadership development, and health.', 'The motivation for giving is part of their back story. “We are first generation immigrants here, and we were educated in the United States,” Ms. Cherng said. “The giving back and paying forward is very important to us.”', 'The Cherngs came to the United States from China in the mid-1960s to attend Baker University in Baldwin City, Kan., where they met as freshmen. Mr. Cherng then earned a master’s degree in applied mathematics at the University of Missouri, and Ms. Cherng received a master’s degree in computer science and a doctorate in electrical engineering.', 'The restaurant business, though, was in Mr. Cherng’s blood. In 1973, with the help of his father, Ming-Tsai Cherng, a chef, he opened his first restaurant, The Panda Inn in Pasadena, Calif.', '“For me, my biggest business challenge was going from zero to one store and surviving that,” Mr. Cherng said. “When you don’t have any money, and you aren’t making any money, whether I was going to survive or not to me was the challenge.”', 'In 1983, when the real estate developer of the Glendale Galleria, a customer of the Panda Inn, proposed opening a quick-serve location in his mall, the Cherngs leapt on the chance. And Ms. Cherng — who had worked on the software development team for organizations such as McDonnell Douglas and Comtal-3M — went to work for the family business.', '“The ‘LOVE’ sculpture makes me remember my personal change,” Mr. Cherng said. “When I was younger, I was probably much more task-oriented, much more demanding. As I get older, I connect with people. I am more patient. We are in the business of developing people, we just happen to be in the restaurant business and serve Chinese food.”', 'The Fourth of July is upon us, so it’s time once again to sing what is arguably our most baffling national ditty, “Yankee Doodle Dandy.” Maybe you’ve noticed: Some of the lyrics seem like the work of a prankster on acid. Who else could have conceived a vignette as bizarre as a man riding a pony into town, then sticking a feather in his cap that, for unknown reasons, he insists on calling “macaroni”?', 'The answer is not George M. Cohan, who wrote the ecstatically patriotic verses of “The Yankee Doodle Boy” for the 1904 musical “Little Johnny Jones.” He lifted the feather-and-cap lines from a song called, simply, “Yankee Doodle,” which was popularized by British troops during the Revolutionary War. And whoever composed these words — history is inconclusive — didn’t intend a jesting, surreal tribute to the colonists. Quite the opposite. The song is an insult.', 'It’s not just any insult, either. With “Yankee Doodle,” the Redcoats were delivering the most puerile, schoolyard insult in the schoolyard insult book. They were suggesting that American soldiers were gay.', 'Gay and bumbling, actually.', 'To decode this very un-P.C. put-down, you first need to know that the song has only a nominal connection to pasta. The macaronis were members of a subculture of British fops in the 1760s and 1770s, who took their name from the Italian ingredient that would have seemed exotic and sophisticated in England at the time. The trend started with aristocrats, but caught on with middle- and working-class lads as well.', 'Disdaining the drab clothing that was the English standard, the macaronis took inspiration from styles in Italy and France, then they doubled down on the flamboyance. Contemporaneous illustrations show men in comically tall white wigs, carrying preposterously tiny hats, wearing tight and garishly embroidered waistcoats, brightly colored stockings and impractical slipper-like shoes.', 'Today we would say these guys were working it. Clearly, they scandalized the establishment.', '“Such a figure, essenced and perfumed, with a bunch of lace sticking out under its chin, puzzles the common passenger to determine the thing’s sex,” wrote Town and Country Magazine in 1772. “And many a time an honest laboring porter has said, ‘By your leave, madam,’ without intending to give offense.”', 'The ostentation of the macaroni would prompt talk about sexual orientation. In a 1999 academic article in “Fashion Theory: The Journal of Dress, Body and Culture,” Peter McNeil explained that “as soon as the macaroni stereotype entered the middle-class press the character was interpreted as sodomitical.” Macaronis were jeered at with fictional names that probably sounded more homophobic at the time: “Lord Dimple,” “Sir William Whiffle,” “Marjorie Pattypan.”', 'Now to the Revolutionary War. As in armed conflicts before and since, militias on both sides had a large catalog of derisive tunes to lift their spirits. King George III was a favorite target for the Americans, and the Americans were a favorite target for the British. The melody for “Yankee Doodle” had been around for a couple of hundred years, but a tailored-for-the-moment rendition quickly became the most popular tune in the Redcoat repertoire.', 'The lyrics were venomous. “Yankee” was a withering word for a colonist. A “doodle” was a rube or a fool, and the doodle in this song rides a pony, instead of a horse, which makes him ridiculous. And why is the titular bumpkin heading to town? He hopes to become one of those hyperstylized fellows known as a macaroni.', 'Here’s the clincher: The doodle can’t pull it off. He thinks that sticking a feather in his cap will suffice to join Britain’s most effete club. In reality, he needs an elaborate costume. The subtext — actually, it might just be the text — is that this quintessential American is a homosexual so daft that he can’t even demonstrate his homosexuality.', 'O.K., it’s the 1770s. It’s war. You expected nice?', 'Unfortunately for the British, the Americans started winning the war. And the more the Americans won, the more they embraced “Yankee Doodle” as their own. By the time the Battle of Bunker Hill rolled round, in June 1775, the Continental Army had the song in heavy rotation. After a clinching victory at the Battle of Saratoga, in September 1777, the Americans were serenading their defeated foes with “Yankee Doodle.” This was pure agony for the British, as an English officer named Thomas Aubrey reported.', '“ ‘Yankee Doodle’ is now their paean, a favorite of favorites, played in their army, esteemed as warlike as the ‘Grenadiers’ march — it is the lover’s spell, the nurse’s lullaby,” he wrote. “It was not a little mortifying to hear them play this tune, when their army marched down to our surrender.”', 'What American soldiers had done would later become known as reappropriation. It is the act of embracing a name, a term, an idea — or a song — that was intended as derogatory. At minimum, the hug neutralizes the mockery. At most, it disarms an opponent of a weapon.', 'History is filled with examples. “Tory” and “Whig” were originally scornful appellations, as was “Impressionist,” which was lifted from a critic who dismissed the movement’s paintings as “fleeting impressions.” More recently, “queer” had the bite of a rattler until gays around the world adopted and thus defanged it.', 'But Americans are surely the maestros of reappropriation. Conservatives turned the phrase “vast right-wing conspiracy” from an accusation to a punch line. Liberals turned “Obamacare” from a sneer to an endorsement.', 'Pop stars like Madonna and Britney Spears made “bitch” a compliment. “Redneck” has a hint of pride these days, thanks largely to Southern comedians like Jeff Foxworthy who made it a touchstone of their identities and routines. Soon after Donald Trump called Hillary Clinton a “nasty woman” during a debate, the phrase began appearing on her supporters’ T-shirts.', 'In short, reappropriation is an American specialty — a rhetorical stratagem practiced even before the Declaration of Independence was signed. So by singing “Yankee Doodle” you’re not just celebrating the country’s birth. You are belting out words used by the soldiers who made that birth possible, and with a taunt that boomeranged for the ages.', 'TOKYO — Toshiba, the huge but struggling Japanese conglomerate, traded some of its size for financial security on Thursday by selling off most of its profitable microchip business.', 'It was not the way the company, which has long been accused of being bloated and directionless, had hoped to slim down.', 'Toshiba said it had signed a deal to sell 60 percent of the microchip unit, Toshiba Memory Corporation, to a group of international investors that includes Bain Capital and Apple. The deal, which followed months of tumultuous negotiations, will net Toshiba about $14 billion.', 'Toshiba has staked its future on the sale, with the proceeds earmarked to help repair the financial damage from a disastrous foray into nuclear power in the United States. The episode threatened to bankrupt the company, one of Japan’s biggest and proudest.', 'Toshiba traces its roots to the 1870s, when its founders helped further Japan’s industrial emergence, building the country’s telegraph system and installing its first domestically made electric lights. If the company had collapsed, Japan would have lost a pillar of its economy and its tens of thousands of workers. It also would have lost the main contractor cleaning up the ruined Fukushima nuclear plant, which Toshiba helped build decades ago.', 'While Toshiba’s history in many ways embodied Japan’s blazing economic rise, some people say the stumbles that led the company to sell chip unit reflected the country’s more recent problems.', 'In an era when the global technology industry is dominated by nimble specialists selling cutting-edge design and software, Toshiba has been defined by a stultifying management hierarchy, a dogged focus on hardware and a scattered portfolio of businesses.', '“Toshiba is one of Japan’s last zombies,” said Jesper Koll, the chief executive of WisdomTree Japan, an investment firm. “It’s the last of the big conglomerates that does not have a defined strategy.”', 'Similar problems have hampered other Japanese groups, but Mr. Koll said that Toshiba had been particularly slow to address them. Others, like Hitachi, another refrigerators-to-power-plants conglomerate, he said, “made hard decisions” to restructure and become more accountable to shareholders, while Toshiba delayed.', 'The inaction helped Toshiba executives save face, at least for a while.', 'But then came an accounting scandal in 2015, in which Toshiba admitted overstating its earnings by $1.2 billion over seven years. Top company leaders resigned, and investigators hired by the company blamed “a corporate culture where it is impossible to go against one’s bosses’ wishes.”', 'Toshiba had been covering up cost overruns at its American nuclear subsidiary, Westinghouse Electric, which it bought amid an ill-timed expansion in 2006. Those losses later ballooned further: Westinghouse sought bankruptcy protection in March, after costing Toshiba $6 billion in write-offs. Toshiba said it would stop building new nuclear power plants and focus instead on maintaining older ones.', 'Now, with the sale of a majority of the microchip unit, Toshiba is shrinking further.', 'The company had been negotiating the sale for months, with a shifting roster of potential investors. The final list of buyers, disclosed in a statement on Thursday, had some surprising omissions.', 'Two financial institutions controlled by the Japanese government that Toshiba had previously identified as major potential investors will not contribute money initially, the company said. The institutions, the Innovation Network Corporation of Japan and the Development Bank of Japan, may invest at a later date.', 'The investors were instead drawn entirely from the private sector.', 'In addition to Apple, they include three other American businesses: Seagate Technology and Kingston Technology, two data storage companies, and a venture capital arm of Dell, the computer maker. The South Korean semiconductor maker SK Hynix, and Hoya, a Japanese manufacturer of optical equipment, were also named as investors.', 'Toshiba itself will retain just over 40 percent of the unit, one of the world’s largest producers of the flash memory chips used to store data in smartphones and other digital devices.', 'In negotiating the deal, Toshiba struggled to balance its need for cash and its desire to retain control of the microchip unit, which has been described as the crown jewel in its vast portfolio of businesses.', 'Toshiba pioneered its core technology, NAND flash memory, and although it has fallen to second in global production, behind Samsung Electronics of South Korea, the business has generated the largest share of Toshiba’s profits in recent years. Among the company’s concerns was that its technology could fall into the hands of investors, like SK Hynix and Kingston, that are also its competitors.', 'Although Japan dominated the global microchip market in the 1980s and 1990s, it has lost ground more recently. Tsugio Makimoto, a retired semiconductor engineer at Hitachi, said that in the past, big conglomerates were good at nurturing microchip businesses, because they had the money to finance research and build factories.', 'Now, as the pace of technological change has quickened, “management speed and specialization are more important,” he said.', 'While Toshiba will retain only a minority of the chip unit’s shares, it will still exercise significant control.', 'The American investors, whose precise financial contributions were not disclosed, will receive preferred shares that do not carry voting rights, Toshiba said. SK Hynix would be limited to an ownership stake of no more than 15 percent for 10 years.', 'Hoya is buying 10 percent. In a line that reflected nationalistic concerns about the sale, Toshiba made a point of noting that, “With Toshiba and Hoya’s investments, Japan-based companies will hold more than 50 percent of the common stock.” It added that Japanese owners would “continue to hold a majority” in the future.', 'In proceeding with the deal, Toshiba brushed aside objections by one of its business partners, Western Digital, the American storage company. Western Digital could still move to block the sale’s completion.', 'A Western Digital subsidiary, SanDisk, shares ownership with Toshiba of a flash memory production operation in Japan. Because of that, the American company contends that its approval is necessary for Toshiba to sell the chip unit. Western Digital said this week that it would seek an injunction against the deal.', 'If the legal battle is settled in Toshiba’s favor, or if the two sides reach a settlement, it could make it easier for risk-averse government institutions like the Innovation Network Corporation of Japan and the Development Bank of Japan to join the buyout conglomerate. That would take pressure off other investors and Toshiba’s banks, which Toshiba said had agreed to provide 600 billion yen in fresh loans.', 'Regardless of the legal outcome, Toshiba’s relationship with Western Digital and SanDisk has been badly damaged, presenting a challenge for the chip unit’s new owners.', '“Toshiba’s flash memory success has a lot to do with its relationship with SanDisk,” said Mr. Makimoto. “There are still a lot of issues to address before Toshiba can breathe easy.”', 'A Flatiron district artificial intelligence start-up was recently looking to expand, adding new engineers who happened to know a niche computer language.', 'The people it hired hail from Morocco, Belarus, France, Georgia and Canada. But they are not working in New York. They are in Montreal, where immigration policies make it possible to get work permits within two weeks, and the Canadian tech industry is aggressively trying to woo foreign companies.', '“It’s becoming less and less sexy to be going to the United States,” said Tim Delisle, 26, a founder of the start-up Datalogue, which uses artificial intelligence to prepare and synthesize data for other businesses. He added that skilled foreign workers crave the greater stability that he said immigrants have in Canada compared with the United States.', 'While much attention has been paid to President Trump’s policies cracking down on illegal immigration, the administration has also moved to restrict legal immigration, especially in the tech industry, which draws many workers from abroad. In April, Mr. Trump introduced an executive order, Buy American and Hire American, which included requests to reform a visa program known as H-1B as a way to benefit American workers.', 'The program awards 85,000 temporary visas annually to highly skilled foreign workers in what are deemed “specialty” occupations through a lottery. Between application and legal fees, the process of applying for one H-1B visa can cost a company up to $6,000, lawyers say, and can take months; it is also as uncertain as roulette, with hundreds of thousands of applicants for the spots.', 'Last week, the Department of Homeland Security published a set of proposed rule changes that would make the visas even harder to qualify for, to ensure that only “the best and brightest” foreign workers were selected. It also hoped to eliminate a work permit for spouses of some of these visa holders.', 'In contrast, Canada’s immigration agency in June started the Global Skills Strategy for high-skilled workers from abroad to get a work permit in two weeks.', '“That is, excuse my English, goddamn fast,” said Hubert Bolduc, the chief executive of Montreal International, a public-private partnership that recruits foreign companies to move to Canada and offers support once they arrive in Montreal. “We’ve been loving government on this because we know it’s a talent game.”', 'In 2017, the organization conducted eight international recruiting missions, in London, Paris, San Francisco and Los Angeles. Its directors have made several informal visits to New York, where it came this month to woo a video game company.', 'With the Trump administration’s immigration policies, “We’re almost saying, ‘Don’t come,’” said Sunil Hirani, the co-founder of trueEx, an electronic global interest rates exchange, also in the Flatiron neighborhood. He came to New York as a child 40 years ago from India. “How can you have a ‘Come to New York City’ program if the people of New York City are going to get kicked out? How do you sell that?”', 'Last year, trueEx’s chief executive and president, Karen O’Connor, was looking at options to expand the company’s computer engineer group. A consortium related to Montreal International invited her to Canada for a visit that made her feel like a foreign dignitary, she said. There was the elegant lunch, the precisely coordinated meetings with potential business partners and a visit to the Montreal Stock Exchange.', 'Ms. O’Connor said the 50-person company could save more than $1 million in wages if it hired engineers based in Montreal. In part, that was because the cost of living was far less compared with New York and because the company could qualify for certain tax benefits.', 'But after Mr. Trump was elected, trueEx hesitated, to gauge the climate; now, it is again considering expanding north of the border in 2018, Ms. O’Connor said, in part because it got a spot site visit from the Department of Homeland Security this summer to verify employment records for its H-1B visa holders. They were in order, but the company’s executives found the process nerve-racking.', '“My advice to other companies would be: Hold on for dear life, but explore other options,” Mr. Hirani said.', 'But John Miano, a lawyer who represents American workers who say that they have lost jobs unfairly to low-skilled H-1B visa holders, thought it was “posturing” for companies to say they are moving north of the border to find the best talent. “The problem is, you got to go to Canada,” Mr. Miano said. “The reality is, the place to do business is still the United States.”', 'Datalogue’s expansion to Montreal, Mr. Delisle’s hometown, evolved swiftly. He and a partner founded Datalogue in 2016 at Cornell Tech in Manhattan and were lucky when a tech mogul, Charles E. Phillips Jr., the chief executive of Infor, gave him two desks on the fifth floor of Infor’s elegantly restored Flatiron headquarters.', 'By spring 2017, Datalogue had grown to five employees and had raised $1.5 million in seed funding. But to bring in more engineers would have cost thousands of dollars in visa fees, Mr. Delisle said, and even then, the process would not be guaranteed. Canada has a burgeoning artificial intelligence sector, and the company opened its Montreal office in April in the trendy Mile End neighborhood; it raised another $1.5 million in seed funding by November.', 'Still, Mr. Delisle said that his company has better access to customers in New York, and for that reason he has kept seven employees there for sales and marketing.', 'While tech is still thriving in New York, where it is the fastest-growing industry in the city, losing offices or whole companies to Canada could be a concern, said Kevin Ryan, an entrepreneur who had founded a half-dozen start-ups. The multiplier effect of the start-up world is a powerful one.', '“When someone decides not to come here to join a start-up, and they go to Toronto, some of them may break off and start a new company across the street,” he said. “The wider impact will be felt, literally, for decades.”', 'Mr. Delisle agreed. “I’m not necessarily scared for New York; there’s phenomenal programs there,” he said. “I am more scared for the broader policies being applied right now.”', 'According to the Partnership for New York City, a business advocacy group, immigration has always been central to the economy of New York. Forty-eight percent of the city’s small-business owners are immigrants, and 45 percent of the work force in the city is foreign-born.', '“The No. 1 priority of business today is where they can get the talent they need from the global talent pool,” said Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the group. “There’s not much a locality can do to incentivize, but we can try to keep the global pipeline open.”', 'Stimulating the city economy was the impetus for New York City’s Economic Development Corporation to create a program called International Innovators Initiative, or IN2NYC. The idea was to provide H-1B visas that were exempt from the government-imposed cap because entrepreneurs would work in partnership with city universities.', 'The program was announced in the spring of 2016 and received 144 applications in the first round. The second round, coming on the heels of the Trump administration’s travel ban, attracted half that number. The program received only 41 this fall.', 'Perhaps even more telling is the small number of foreign entrepreneurs who received visas: six. The IN2NYC program had envisioned at least 25 working at once, but the process, officials say, has been delayed by government challenges to the visas.', 'One company that was initially rejected has appealed — and set up shop in Canada while it is waiting for a decision.']