['FRIDAY PUZZLE — Happy Friday, solvers! Sam Ezersky here; I’ll be subbing for Deb today and tomorrow to give her some well-deserved R&R. I suppose I picked a good time to return, as Zhouqin Burnikel has treated us to a breezy themeless with lots to like.', 'It’s no surprise that Ms. Burnikel’s byline has now appeared on 12 New York Times puzzles this year alone, as she has a knack for filling grids with fresh, new vocabulary. Her recent noteworthy answers include DIGITAL DATA, FRIEND REQUEST, BITMOJIS, LATTE ART and GENDER-FLUID. Today’s fill is no different: CITI BIKES, a creation of the last five years, lies at 1-Across. RSS FEED, TESLA CARS and GOOGLE PLAY give the puzzle a very modern feel, too.', 'Terms like these, while certainly worth knowing, may admittedly be unfamiliar to some. Thus, Ms. Burnikel has made sure that we all can still connect with the puzzle by using universal expressions in everyday dialogue: “AS IF I CARE,” “I FORGOT,” “I NEED A RIDE,” “LET’S SEE, NOW,” “I CAN WAIT” and “OOH! OOH!” Who doesn’t love seeing these in a grid?', 'In case you couldn’t tell, I found this to be a flashy, fun Friday. I tip my hat to Ms. Burnikel for including so many excellent entries for all wavelengths.', '17A: I figured “Pressing warning” had something to do with distress signals, but it’s just a phrase on a clothing tag discouraging the “pressing” of wrinkles. In early week puzzles, this clue would probably receive a question mark, but we’re in weekend territory now, where hidden wordplay is a staple.', '18A: SHOED, as in shoeing horses in a stable. The clue here is elegant because it is a pun on a full phrase, “stable job,” rather than a single word.', '20A: Today I learned that Wrong Way Corrigan was a pioneering aviator who accidentally flew EAST to Dublin, Ireland from New York City as a result of poor navigation. His intended destination? Long Beach, Calif.', '27A: “Cooler” is a slangy synonym for “prison.”', '45A: “They get charged for trips” is the best clue in the puzzle, if you ask me. I always charge my phone before a long drive, and my credit card gets charged for gas, but charging TESLA CARS is not something I’ve ever done, so the answer eluded me for the longest time.', '63A: An ATOLL may be a “unit” in an island “chain.”', '1D: You don’t hear anyone saying “That guy’s a catch!” if he’s a total CAD. Very clever clue.', '7D: KARATS may be “units” in a gold “chain.”', '13D: Hands up if you were thinking of a manufacturer of pickup trucks. Or an utterance while picking up the phone. Or a queue formed before choosing sides for a pickup game. Just when you feel you’re starting to get this whole wordplay thing down, a clue with multiple interpretations comes and knocks you off your feet … anyone else need to be, er, picked up?', '34D: Need a hint for this synonym clue? Have a “hint.” Yes, “hint” is a great way to understand the meaning of “suggestion” here.', '54D: It’s tough to sum up one’s year abroad in just four letters, and that’s because this clue is meant to be parsed as “year, abroad.” ANNO means “year” in Italian.', 'Thanks to Ms. Burnikel for the puzzle, and thanks to you solvers for tuning in. I’ll leave you today with some LOWELL George and Little Feat:', 'Your thoughts?', 'Ando, David Chang’s “restaurant without walls,” a meal-delivery enterprise that started two years ago, has closed. The storefront on West 14th Street near Union Square, which opened in the fall and was supposed to enhance the service’s profile, has also closed.', 'Ando is being absorbed by Uber Eats, the restaurant delivery app operated by Uber. The ride-hailing service had been doing the deliveries for Ando, so it’s a natural fit.', 'In a statement, Jason Droege, the vice president of Uber Everything, the umbrella under which Uber Eats operates, said, “We are committed to investing in technology that helps consumers and restaurant partners alike.”', 'This is not Mr. Chang’s first attempt to create a food delivery service that goes beyond simply picking up pizzas and burgers from a nearby restaurant. He was a partner in Maple, which started delivering food in the spring of 2015. The service was eventually sold to the London-based company Deliveroo.', 'Mr. Chang could not be reached for comment. On the Ando website, he thanked all those who supported the company. A spokeswoman for Mr. Chang referred all inquiries to Uber.', ' We spoke with Monica Auslander, a registered dietitian, about running her business, Essence Nutrition, in a shared office space in Miami. ', 'Miami Cool ', 'I lease a desk in Büro Midtown for my nutrition business. It’s in the glass rotunda of the mixed-use  Midblock building near the Design District, with its high-end stores. The area is gorgeous and just so cool. I leased the space a year ago because there’s not much room in my apartment for a desk, a file cabinet and administrative papers. I also wanted a mailing address different from my home address.', ' Butterfly marks the spot ', 'Mine is the last desk in a row along the windows on the second floor with the acrylic butterfly logo on the windowsill. I chose a butterfly because my business focuses on transformation and metamorphosis, and nothing expresses that like a butterfly. It’s also gender neutral. You’d think noise might be an issue in this space, but people are respectful. If anything, I’m the one making noise. I’ll talk to myself and say, “I have to remember to send that email,” and so forth.', 'Organized yet whimsical ', 'My husband’s cousin is an artist in Colombia, and striped legs are her motif. I stuck the decal on my laptop just for fun. That’s one of the perks of having my own business — if I want to do something frivolous like this, I can. At the same time, I like things organized; I get upset if they’re not. I also keep a small mirror close by because I can’t have food between my teeth when I’m talking to a client.', 'One on one ', 'I pay extra for 20 hours a month of conference room time. Occasionally I FaceTime with a client at home in the morning, but I also wanted a professional space to see clients in person. The staff at the reception desk greets people and has them wait in the reception area. Then the person at the desk summons me, and I walk the client to the conference room.', 'On the hot seat ', 'Asking a dietitian what she eats for lunch is a loaded question. Büro has two pantries here with a refrigerator, so I might bring leftovers from a vegan restaurant, with some feta cheese and arugula tossed in. There’s free coffee, tea and water, but I often bring my own green tea.', 'Fake food and more ', 'I use rubber models of fat, muscle and food items when teaching clients about nutrition and body composition. The portion sizes are helpful as reminders. It’s easy enough to grab the models from the windowsill and go to the conference room.', 'Under my feet ', 'I keep my personal printer and master’s degree diploma in dietetics and nutrition under my desk. I had my diploma in my brick-and-mortar office in Coral Gables before I leased this space, and it’s here now in case anyone wants to see it.', 'Recognition of service', 'I’m on the board of Jewish Community Services of South Florida and was co-chairwoman for two years. This year they gave me an award for years of service and special projects. I keep it here because it’s one more thing I have no space for in my apartment.', 'Lunch and potential hires ', 'I’ve gone out to lunch with one or two co-workers here. I like that there are people who do things in different industries. I always need marketing work done, and I feel like sooner or later I may hire someone from here. I see them every day, I see their work ethic, and it’s nice to conceptualize a potential vendor in that way.', 'I’ve been covering the Volkswagen emissions scandal for more than two and a half years, writing dozens of articles as well as a book. But the Volkswagen article that generated by far the most outrage was about what the company did to a handful of monkeys.', 'It started with an anonymous informer who gave me hundreds of pages of documents from a lawsuit filed against Volkswagen in the United States. Among them was a deposition by Jake McDonald, a scientist at the Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute in Albuquerque.', 'That was weird. What did an Albuquerque lab have to do with Volkswagen?', 'It turned out that a research organization overseen and wholly financed by Volkswagen and other German carmakers had hired Lovelace to test the effects of diesel exhaust on monkeys. By locking 10 monkeys in glass chambers, and exposing them for four hours to diluted exhaust from a Volkswagen Beetle, according to court documents, the carmakers hoped to prove that modern technology had neutralized the toxic effects of diesel fumes, which are blamed for hundreds of thousands of premature deaths.', 'But the experiments were fundamentally flawed. The diesel Volkswagen Beetle used in the experiments was fitted with illegal software that reduced emissions substantially in lab conditions like those in Albuquerque, while allowing profuse amounts of pollution at other times. In other words, the emissions produced by the Beetle in the lab bore little relation to those produced in the real world.', 'In addition, the experiments were plagued with procedural errors, and did not even clearly show that a rigged Volkswagen was less harmful to the monkeys. All the monkeys — even those in the control group that didn’t breathe any exhaust — showed signs of inflammation in their lungs. But it wasn’t clear if the inflammation came from the exhaust or from the medical exams conducted before the experiments, which according to court records were not done properly. The experiments produced no useful scientific knowledge.', 'It would have been possible to just write a story about this clumsy attempt to salvage diesel’s declining reputation. But Jim Yardley, the editor on the story, pushed me to broaden the scope and use the monkey experiments as a window into the ways in which automakers have tried to influence the scientific debate about diesel, as well as the methods they use to exert political influence in Berlin and Brussels.', 'That broader story took a lot more reporting. Pinning down how the automakers used the studies to influence public policy was difficult. Environmental groups and lobbyist watchdog organizations told me that when corporations sponsor research, they rarely wave the studies around publicly. Rather, their front organizations manage to get the studies published in scientific journals, obscuring who paid for the research. The findings enter the bloodstream of the body politic, subtly influencing the debate.', 'The front organization that commissioned the monkey experiments and others related to diesel is the European Research Group on Environment and Health in the Transport Sector, known by its German initials E.U.G.T. To assess the group’s impact on the debate, I obtained a list of its other studies.', 'I discovered that some of the research had been cited by reputable organizations, including an arm of the British government. One study commissioned by the E.U.G.T., which cast doubt on whether traffic restrictions in cities led to cleaner air, influenced the judges in a court case in Austria to reject a suit by citizens of Graz who were pushing for the creation of a low-emissions zone in the city.', 'I’ve certainly had some tense conversations with auto companies and their representatives during the last couple of years. But they reacted fairly calmly when I asked them about the monkey research. Volkswagen, Daimler and BMW all distanced themselves from the experiments. After the article was published, all three companies took action against midlevel employees who had been responsible for overseeing the work of the front organization, relieving them of their duties pending internal investigations.', 'The carmakers’ low-key response to my questions about the monkeys indicates that they may have underestimated what the article’s repercussions would be. I know I did. I thought the story would make a splash, but I didn’t expect it to become the top story in German media for several days; for German Chancellor Angela Merkel to weigh in with an expression of condemnation; and for the German Parliament to hold a debate on the issue.', 'Why the outrage over the fate of 10 macaque monkeys when Volkswagen had already pleaded guilty to conspiracy to violate the United States Clean Air Act and other charges? After all, we already knew that diesel exhaust has caused hundreds of thousands of people to die prematurely, and that Volkswagen and other European carmakers took advantage of weak enforcement to mislead the public about how much pollution their vehicles produced.', 'I think the explanation is this: Until the 10 monkeys became part of the story, Volkswagen’s fraud had no identifiable victims. When people die from lung cancer or heart attacks after breathing air polluted by diesel cars, it’s impossible to point the finger at any one carmaker. The ill effects are cumulative and may take years to manifest themselves.', 'The 10 unfortunate monkeys, forced to breathe exhaust so that Volkswagen and the others could sell more cars, provided the scandal with its first specific casualties. They crystallized public frustration with the auto companies’ behavior.', 'As the magazine Der Spiegel wrote in an editorial, “The faces of our animal relatives opened our eyes to the unscrupulousness of this industry.”', 'In Germany, the monkey experiments may prompt action that watchdog groups have been seeking for years. Political leaders, fearful that their longtime acquiescence to the auto industry has become a liability, are talking about forcing all lobbyists to register and disclose their contributions to politicians, as they must already do in the United States. There are increasing calls for car companies to retrofit old diesels with better emissions equipment. And during the debate in Parliament, several representatives spoke of a need for “culture change” in the industry, a hint that they may push automakers to change their management.', 'In the days following the publication of my article, the No. 1 question readers asked was what happened to the monkeys — the answer to which I can now at least partly provide.', 'According to the Albuquerque lab, the 2014 experiments did not kill them, and they were returned to the general population of primates kept by the lab. Their fate since then is unclear — a spokeswoman for the lab said it shares information about the medical conditions of its animals only with government regulators. But it is safe to say they are among the most influential nonhuman primates in German history.', 'LONDON — Kering, the owner of high-fashion labels such as Gucci, Saint Laurent and Alexander McQueen, is getting out of the sports lifestyle business.', 'On Thursday, the French conglomerate said it would spin off the German sports brand Puma to its shareholders, the final move in a series of deals brokered by Kering as part of its transformation into a pure luxury player. The move is a signal of Kering’s belief in the health of the highest-end of the consumer market.', 'The group said that it planned to distribute 70 percent of Puma shares in kind to existing Kering investors, out of the 86 percent it currently owns. Kering would retain the 16 percent of shares left outstanding. Artémis, the holding company of France’s billionaire Pinault family that holds 41 percent of Kering shares, would then become a “long-term strategic shareholder” in Puma, with an ownership stake of about 29 percent. The number of Puma’s publicly traded shares would be increased to approximately 55 percent, a statement from Kering said.', 'Speculation that Kering would divest Puma has been longstanding. The group first acquired a majority stake in Puma in 2007 for 5.3 billion euros (about $7 billion) as part of a move into the athletics and lifestyle arena. However, Puma underperformed and consistently posted flat sales, only seeing a turnaround in 2015.', 'By that stage Kering — which started in 1963 as a trader of timber and construction materials, eventually moving in and out of sectors as opportunity allowed — had divested most of its non-luxury assets, such as French retail brand Printemps and the catalog label La Redoute, and narrowed its focus to increasing market share in the fast-growing, high-margin world of global luxury.', 'Puma’s size prevented Kering from finding an appropriate new owner for Puma, and a sale on the open market could have led to discounts on the stock. That led to the conglomerate’s decision to divest shares to Kering shareholders.', '“The contemplated distribution of Puma shares to our shareholders would be a significant milestone in the history of the group,” said Kering’s chairman and chief executive, François-Henri Pinault. “Kering would then dedicate itself entirely to the development of its luxury houses.”', 'Puma, which is expected to report its full-year results Feb. 12, said it welcomed the transaction because it would increase the number of the company’s publicly traded shares and added that the move will not affect its strategy for building its business. Company shares have soared by 45 percent over the last 12 months, bringing its market capitalization to 5.3 billion euros, in line with the value at which Kering originally bought the brand.', 'Analysts also appeared to support the deal as a positive move for Kering, which has seen its stock soar in the wake of a recent recovery in the global luxury market. The rally was fueled in particular by a resurgence in the popularity of Gucci and Saint Laurent, despite a recent tax inquiry by the Italian police.', '“We celebrate this as a landmark achievement for Kering,” Luca Solca, head of luxury at Exane BNP Paris, wrote in a note to investors, “and a sign that the luxury goods industry is progressing in its consolidation and rationalization.”', 'The stabbing deaths of a Brooklyn couple may have been related to a dispute at their religious supply store of candles and scented oils in a nearby section of Brownsville, the police said on Thursday.', 'No arrests have been made in the deaths of Hazel Brown and Stephenson Bonaparte, both from Trinidad, who were stabbed Wednesday night in and outside their home on the 200 block of Winthrop Street near Prospect Park in Prospect Lefferts Gardens.', '“We’re not saying it’s a robbery, a robbery gone bad, a home invasion; it’s not the issue,” said Robert K. Boyce, the chief of detectives for the New York Police Department. “We think it’s something else,” he said without elaborating.', 'He said detectives were looking into an argument the couple had with a customer earlier in the day at their store, King Soloman Religious Store on Rutland Road, which the couple had operated for years and where Mr. Bonaparte was known as a pastor.', '“We believe it’s something to do with their business; they own a religious store,” Chief Boyce said. “We’re going to do a search warrant on the store to see exactly what’s going on. So we’re a long way away from where we need to be on this case, but we have a lot of people speaking to us in the neighborhood because everybody liked them; they were nice people.”', 'Workers at neighboring shops said King Soloman had a modest but loyal clientele, and that besides selling candles and oils, the store offered tarot card readings.', '“We have a first name of an individual there they had an argument with,” Chief Boyce said, with little more than that as a lead. “So, we will figure that out in the next couple of days as we go forward with the case. Who this fellow is and whether he’s from the neighborhood.”', 'Raymond Ragues, a lawyer who handled separate bankruptcy petitions for the couple, called them and their store a fixture in the neighborhood. “They called it voodoo, occult,” he said of the store’s inventory.', '“It was a tiny little store,” he said. “If you had money problems, buy this candle. If you have love problems, buy this soap.”', 'Mr. Ragues described their bankruptcies as routine. “They were struggling along with bills,” he said. “Nothing else. Nothing nasty.” Mr. Bonaparte, 65, filed for bankruptcy in 2015, and Ms. Brown, 59, did the same thing last year. Their petitions listed modest incomes and expenses, including car payments and credit cards.', 'On Wednesday, the couple was at some sort of religious event, Chief Boyce said. “He’s not feeling well, so he has to go home a little bit earlier than they would have.”', 'Investigators believe that Mr. Bonaparte parked the car while Ms. Brown went into the apartment and that the attacker struck Mr. Bonaparte outside before going inside and stabbing Ms. Brown.', '“The door is open and that’s how the perpetrator makes entry,” the chief said, “and then he goes in and accosts her, he stabs her.”', 'The killer was described as a black man wearing a ski mask.', 'Chief Boyce said the couple’s daughter, who was upstairs, saw the attacker “running out with the knife in his hand.”', 'Neighbors interviewed on Thursday thought back to the previous day. When a home health aide named Desiree learned of the killings, she had a chilling realization.', 'She said she had walked by the house minutes before the police have said the stabbings occurred and noticed a man in a black hooded sweatshirt and black pants standing against the house’s chain-link fence and looking out toward the street. It was sleeting, so the sight of the loitering man struck Desiree, who did not give her last name for fear of becoming a target.', '“I said, ‘good night” to him, he said ‘good night’ to me,” Desiree said. Later, “it really clicked that I passed somebody, like somebody waiting.”', 'WASHINGTON — The Republican tax bill headed for President Trump’s desk is the most ambitious test yet of his approach to economic policy — that his ideas for strengthening American business will increase the prosperity of the American people.', 'Mr. Trump championed the plan to cut corporate and individual taxes by $1.5 trillion over the next decade, forgoing revenue that could have been spent on new roads, worker training or better schools, on the theory that investors will make better use of the money, creating wealth for all Americans.', 'He is pressing to reduce federal regulation, declaring last week that the government has imposed too many rules and constraints, creating a burden that “destroys our companies” and hurts American workers.', 'And bolstering business in the United States is the guiding principle of Mr. Trump’s approach to trade — although his vision of what will help companies competing in a global economy differs sharply from the perspectives of many corporate executives. Mr. Trump, whose worldview is that exports strengthen the economy while imports drain away the nation’s wealth, wants to erect tariffs and other trade barriers to protect American companies from foreign competition, arguing that will translate into more and better-paying jobs.', 'In recent decades, the two political parties pursued economic policies focused on helping people directly. Republicans championed lower income taxes; Democrats emphasized expansion of the social safety net. Both parties sought to improve education through regulation and subsidies.', 'And presidents from the two parties backed trade deals that sacrificed manufacturing jobs for a wave of imports that let consumers buy televisions, furniture and clothing at lower prices.', 'Mr. Trump has substituted a singular focus: increasing the output of the United States economy.', 'His political opponents, and some of his allies, have criticized Mr. Trump’s economic views as inconsistent. Some Democrats embrace Mr. Trump’s concerns about trade deals while they bitterly oppose the tax bill and regulatory rollbacks. Republicans have welcomed his advocacy for tax cuts as some bemoan his protectionist approach to trade.', 'But Mr. Trump sees tax cuts and trade restrictions as tools in the service of the same goal.', '“We’re not going to lose our businesses again like has happened over the last number of decades,” he said in an address that the White House billed as a “closing argument” for the tax plan. “America is coming back bigger and better and stronger than ever before.”', 'The tax bill epitomizes this approach. Republicans contend that reducing corporate taxation will encourage businesses to increase investment, driving faster growth and prompting businesses to pay higher wages. The White House Council of Economic Advisers projected that the plan would lift a typical household’s income by $3,000 to $7,000 a year.', '“I think a rising tide does lift all boats,” said Michael R. Strain, the director of economic policy studies at the conservative American Enterprise Institute. “You increase incentives for broad categories of things, like investment and labor supply, and you kind of let the economy do its thing.”', 'Republican are so confident, they have repeatedly predicted the government will not even lose money because lower rates will be offset by economic expansion. Government and private sector economists estimate the United States will lose as much as $1 trillion over the next decade, even with tax-cut-fueled economic growth.', '“We think the country’s been underperforming, and we believe this will get the country performing better,” Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, said this month.', 'Democrats have sharply criticized the plan as a revival of “trickle-down economics.” They note that previous rounds of business-focused tax cuts have not produced the broad prosperity that many conservative economists predicted. After the most recent round in the early 2000s, under President George W. Bush, companies mostly distributed the windfall to their investors in the form of share buybacks or higher dividends. A 2015 study of the net effect found that neither corporate investment nor wages increased as a result of the tax cut.', '“It’s not tax reform,” Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, said of the tax bill. “It’s a heist.”', 'The Republican plan does cut individual taxes, but the legislation skews toward business cuts and would reduce corporate tax revenue by 18 percent over the next five years compared with an 8 percent cut in personal income tax revenue, according to the Joint Committee on Taxation.', 'It also provides little direct benefit to the one-quarter of households that do not make enough money to pay federal income taxes but are still required to make payroll tax payments. In previous tax overhauls, Republicans supported expansions of the earned-income tax credit — a cash subsidy that offsets payroll taxation. The House speaker, Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, proposed a new expansion, but in a sign of the shift in party priorities, Republicans set aside the idea to allow larger business tax cuts. The final bill does increase a refundable credit for families with children.', 'The business-centric approach has found a natural constituency among corporate chieftains, who say lower taxes will prompt them to expand and invest, although few have offered specific proposals.', '“We pay a lot of taxes and we’ll get a benefit, but the real benefit will be in American society and the broader economy,” Brian T. Moynihan, the chief executive of Bank of America, told CNBC.', 'Mr. Moynihan said his company might expand its branch network in a wider range of cities, which would be a shift from its current approach. Bank of America has closed more than 1,600 branches over the last decade in response to tighter regulation, slower growth and the rise of online banking.', 'Notably, the tax bill takes aim at the more traditional approach to economic development by reducing incentives for investment in infrastructure and education.', 'The broadest change limits the federal deduction for state and local income taxes paid to $10,000, putting pressure on state and local governments to cut taxes and spending to compensate for the lost tax break.', 'The legislation ends a popular program that provided tax credits to investors in public works projects like transportation, renewable energy and school construction.', 'It reduces tax incentives for spending on research and development.', '“If you had to ask what makes Silicon Valley a global economic leader, it’s not California’s low taxes and low regulation,” said Jason Furman, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics and the former chairman of President Barack Obama’s Council of Economic Advisers. “This bill is absolutely designed to undermine the sources of America’s competitiveness. I can’t put a number on it, but if you ask what the economic impact is, it’s going to be negative.”', 'Mr. Trump is pursuing a similar shift in regulation, seeking to reverse or rewrite a host of rules intended to protect workers and consumers, under the theory that freeing companies from “red tape” will allow businesses to prosper, with wide-ranging benefits.', 'In remarks at the White House last week, Mr. Trump argued that regulation was impeding private investment in infrastructure. He held up a long, multicolored chart that he said reflected the permitting process for the construction of “a highway or a roadway.”', '“By the time you finished, you probably gave up,” Mr. Trump said.', 'The Obama administration also sought to strengthen the social safety net, which helps workers maintain a minimum quality of life, most notably through the Affordable Care Act, which makes it easier for workers to obtain and maintain health insurance, even if they shift jobs. The Trump administration is seeking to reverse that legislation. Mr. Trump and congressional leaders also have said they are planning a broader overhaul of social welfare programs.', '“We have a welfare system that’s basically trapping people in poverty and effectively paying people not to work,” Mr. Ryan told a Denver radio station this month. “We’ve got to work on that.”', 'Mr. Trump’s approach to trade policy is similarly focused on businesses.', 'The administration’s proposed budget, released this year, would cut funding for a variety of retraining programs that help workers who lose jobs to foreign competition — the solution long advocated by economists and politicians of both parties to help workers adjust to globalization.', 'Instead, Mr. Trump has emphasized the importance of protecting and expanding old-line industries like coal, cars and steel. The administration asserts that expanding the industrial sector will create high-paying, blue-collar jobs, and that it is more important for workers to have good jobs than for consumers to be able to buy cheaper imported food, clothes and cars.', 'It is a crucial reason that the administration is weighing tariffs on imports of steel, aluminum, solar products and washing machines. And why the administration is seeking to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement in favor of American companies, a trade pact that Mr. Trump has threatened to abandon if Canada and Mexico do not accept major changes, like a proposal requiring a higher percentage of automobile components to be made in the United States.', 'Many business leaders see tariffs as tax increases, and trade rules as just another kind of burdensome regulation. And many companies depend on foreign suppliers to hold down their productions costs, allowing them to compete with foreign rivals.', '“In industry after industry, many of the most successful American businesses are worked into global supply chains,” said Phil Levy, a former trade adviser in Mr. Bush’s administration. “Having low trade barriers can be as important to them as having low taxes.”', 'For Mr. Trump, however, lower taxes and higher tariffs serve the same purpose: fortifying the United States economy in what he sees as a zero-sum competition among nations.', 'He has said since the start of his presidential campaign that his proposals would revive America’s fortunes and turn around a country he sees falling behind as a result of wrongheaded economic policies that have put United States companies at a disadvantage.', 'In recent weeks, he has predicted that his tax cuts will provide rocket fuel for the economy and that economic growth could reach 6 percent a year — three times the average pace since the 2008 financial crisis.', 'Mainstream economic forecasters regard such forecasts as fanciful. With the passage of the tax plan, Mr. Trump has won the chance to find out.']