['UNION, Ill. — It’s not easy selling a Wild West Town theme park located 60 miles northwest of Chicago, as Larry and Helene Donley have discovered.', 'The octogenarian couple have run the place for 43 years and are finally ready to retire. But their sons, Randy and Mike, who are in their early 60s and have helped manage it, are keen for other challenges. And the three Donley grandchildren, who grew up playing cowboy games at the 23-acre amusement park, are off living their own lives. It seems quite likely that this quintessential family-owned business will be passed into the hands of an outsider.', 'There is a hitch, however: The elder Donleys don’t want someone to change the property into, say, a concert space, as a potential buyer once suggested. Ideally, they want things to continue in their current Howdy Doody-esque form, right down to the gold-panning pavilion, the live action Wild West show, and kiddie rides on the 19th-century miniature locomotive.', 'Donley’s Wild West Town has been for sale, off and on, for a few years. The current asking price is $7 million, but Larry Donley has turned away people who didn’t seem willing or likely to preserve it as is.', '“I don’t believe anyone really interested in this place will tear it down,” he said in an interview on a recent Sunday.', 'Developers have salivated over the property, which comes with a restaurant that has a liquor license and would be perfect, in their minds, for other commercial uses, like a concert stadium or an antique car dealership. They look at Donley’s Wild West Town and envision how quickly it could be razed.', 'And while the senior Donleys know they could easily cash in by ceding to such tempting offers, they are resolute.', 'Randy and Mike Donley say the theme park taps into their father’s inner child, and he seems to agree. “It reminds me of when I was a kid in the 1930s,” Larry Donley said.', 'Such is the difficulty of selling a family heirloom business that no one else in the family really wants to run.', 'Does this frustrate the younger generations? They say no, and insist they are committed to operating the park until they find that elusive buyer. “The park was never our dream,” Randy, the younger son, said of himself and his brother, who auction antique phonographs, jukeboxes and other 20th-century Americana as their principal occupation. As for their father, however, “He really believes that that person is out there.”', 'As with many amusement parks, the bulk of the revenue — some of it from the $17-a-person admission — has to come in between May and the end of October. Mike Donley wouldn’t discuss financial details, but he said the park had earned the family enough to sustain three generations over the decades. Mike and Randy Donley both say it is profitable.', 'Jim Futrell, an amusement park historian, said a park the size of Wild West Town may bring in around $10 million annually, but that wouldn’t include the proceeds from a restaurant on the site run by twin brothers who only recently took it over and from other events held there, including auctions by Randy Donley.', 'Places like Wild West Town are relics of a bygone era, trying to attract children who are more attracted to virtual reality and mobile apps than games of cops and robbers or cowboys and Indians.', 'Similar family-owned theme parks dotted the country in the 1950s, profiting from increasingly prosperous Americans who took their vacations on the road after the opening of the Interstate System of highways. Roadside attractions had certain themes that would have been familiar to children of that era: Western-oriented spots like Frontier Town, which still lives on in Berlin, Md., or Christmas-themed sites like Santa’s Workshop, an amusement park in North Pole, N.Y. (also known as the town of Wilmington, which is about 140 miles north of Albany).', 'Mr. Futrell, a director of the National Amusement Park Historical Association, said that bigger, flashier and more modern theme parks have squeezed out the smaller and more antiquated ones. They have dwindled from a few hundred in number to a few dozen, and those that remain have repositioned themselves by adding thrill rides or other types of attractions.', 'As for the smaller theme parks that no longer exist, in many cases the families that owned them cashed in on their land holdings — at great profit — and closed up shop.', 'The concept of the family road trip has also evolved. “What you’re seeing are changing vacation habits,” Mr. Futrell said.', 'Situated in a farming community with a population of roughly 750, Donley’s Wild West Town has plenty of local competition, from the Six Flags Great America to the north to the Santa’s Village Azoosment Park 22 miles to the south.', 'Robert Kramer, the marketing director at Santa’s Village in East Dundee, Ill., said that operating a small amusement park comes with some modern challenges. Both Wild West Town and Santa’s Village focus on the 2-year-old-to-tween crowd. These days, those children are reluctant to put down their electronic devices for a day of unplugged, old-fashioned fun, he said.', 'The increasingly far-flung nature of organized sports ties up family free time. And a glut of entertainment options, from bowling and paintball to bigger and more extravagant theme parks, also draws away potential customers.', 'Santa’s Village opened in 1959 but closed in 2006, and its original owner is dead. Under new ownership and management, the park reopened in 2011 and has continued to add attractions, including a $1.5 million roller coaster that opened this year. Constant investment is needed, Mr. Kramer said, because “there are a ton of other options when it comes to family activities.”', 'Parks tied to the Wild West or cowboys have struggled in particular, said Mr. Futrell, the historian, because that theme has lost its appeal with younger audiences. After all, “Bonanza” and “Gunsmoke” are no longer popular prime-time television fare.', 'A once family-owned Frontier Town in New York’s Hudson Valley shut down in the late 1990s, its buildings still vacant. Early this year, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York proposed a  $32 million redevelopment of the 85-acre site, including a visitor information center, a campground, facilities for shows and festivals, and space for historic exhibits about Adirondack Park.', 'Ponderosa Ranch, a theme park that operated on Lake Tahoe, Nev., set of “Bonanza,” shut down over a decade ago.', 'Donley’s Wild West Town is still the site of many happy childhood memories — particularly for the Donley grandchildren.', '“As a child growing up, it was like a fairy tale,” said Shawnah Donley, 29, the daughter of Randy Donley. “It was our backyard, and we were part of what our family did for a living.”', 'She grew up nearby and recalls school field trips to Wild West Town. After college, Ms. Donley got a job in the live action Wild West show, where her work caught the attention of a talent scout. That led to her professional career as a stunt actor, with credits that include the movie “Contagion” and the NBC television series “Chicago Fire.” She now lives in Chicago and also works as a real estate broker. But while she says her generation, which includes a younger brother and a cousin, hopes to see the park continue to operate, the fact that her family is looking to sell it isn’t a surprise.', '“It’s always something that we thought would happen,” she said. “We have our own interests and futures.”', 'The Donleys have always been collectors of trinkets and oddities. Larry Donley acquired the first seven acres of the property in 1972 so he could build a storehouse for the antique phonographs and other things he had begun collecting decades earlier. “I didn’t really know what stuff I had, and I still had too much,” he said. Back then, he owned a gas and service station in Berwyn, Ill., around 50 miles closer to Chicago, where he raised his family. But he would eventually sell that business.', 'Randy and Mike Donley grew up watching their father collect these pieces of Americana and got into the game themselves, snapping up antique guns and military memorabilia and assorted pieces of American history like toys, lamps, telephones, phonographs, music boxes, telegraph equipment and war souvenirs.', 'The first building on the park’s site became a museum and showcase for these items. Despite being right off Route 20 and barely three miles from the Illinois Railway Museum, visitor traffic was slow for the first couple of years.', 'It wasn’t meant to be a theme park at all until Larry Donley built the town’s gold mine and gold-panning attraction to occupy the children of adults who visited the museum, which opened in 1974. “It all kind of evolved,” Mike Donley recalled.', 'In addition to the museum and gold mine, the site has an operating antique train, a gentle roller coaster (the “Runaway Mine Cart”), a carousel and a water ride. There are also firing and archery ranges, a tomahawk throw and slingshot gallery. Employees dressed as cowboys give roping lessons and gun-spinning exhibitions. The town jail includes authentic 19th-century cells acquired from the jail in the town of Union. Visitors can coax the town marshal to arrest people.', 'During the height of the season, the site employs about 100 people, many of them students at the local high schools. It draws visitors from a 60-mile radius in northern Illinois, attracting school and day care groups, church groups and camp attendees.', 'Sid Schroepfer, who will be a high school senior in the fall, demonstrated his lasso-twirling skills in the park one recent Sunday. This is a new job for him, and he said he liked it because he “gets to play cowboy all day.”', '“We are selling an experience for parents and grandparents and children,” Mike Donley said. “Everything is hands-on.”', 'The park has given birth to some careers in show business. In addition to Shawnah Donley, there is Joey Dillon, a gun spinner who now coaches actors on gun handling for films and television. He credits his two seasons in the cast at Donley’s for starting his career.', 'He grew up in rural California and developed an interest in gun spinning from watching old Westerns, and when he moved to Chicago to pursue a career in comedy, he fell into a job at Donley’s. “I look back on Donley’s as kind of my fun dorm days with a bunch of college-aged kids, hanging out with them at night and playing pranks backstage,” Mr. Dillon said. He is still in touch with some of his former colleagues, some 20 years later. Mr. Dillon wasn’t aware the property was up for sale.', 'Taylor Fryza, who directs and acts in the park’s live shows, remembered visiting the town as a girl. “When you’re a little kid, it’s like stepping into a different world,” she said. Eventually she went to acting school in New York and returned home. She said she was not worried about the place being for sale. “You just put your best foot forward and do as many shows as you can,” she said.', 'When it comes to the sale effort, the Donleys have displayed a little showmanship of their own. In what the family admits was largely a publicity stunt, they put the Wild West Town up for sale in last year’s Christmas catalog of Hammacher Schlemmer, where it stood out among the massage wands, radio-controlled toys and exercise gadgets. Many years earlier — in 2003 — they listed it on eBay for $12 million, though they didn’t get many serious offers then, either.', 'And so the operation chugs along, in nostalgia mode for some of its owners. “As much as we enjoyed it, as much as we loved it, it was hard work seven days a week,” Mike Donley said, adding that the grandchildren “didn’t see that as a future for them.”', 'Larry and Helene Donley live in a house right next to the amusement park and work on the site every day. The family jokes they are likely to ask the next owners for a job. The brothers say they aren’t forcing a sale.', '“If they want to find another proprietor during their lifetimes, I’d rather let them do that,” Mike Donley said of his parents. “It’s another challenge for them.”', 'WASHINGTON — An industry familiar to President Trump appears to have emerged from the Republican tax rewrite relatively unscathed: commercial real estate.', 'For months, commercial real estate developers had been concerned that the tax plan in the works would make it more difficult or expensive for them to take out huge bank loans or would damage demand in the property market.', 'But if the  plan unveiled this week by House Republicans comes to pass, developers like Mr. Trump, who made much of his fortune building skyscrapers, hotels and resorts, will have little to worry about.', '“The industry was left whole,” said Thomas J. Bisacquino, president of NAIOP, a commercial real estate development trade group. “The provisions we feel are working will still work.”', 'Developers were fearful that the special tax treatment of “carried interest” — fees that are taxed as capital gains, not income — would be amended, or that they would no longer be able to deduct interest expenses from their taxable profits. They were also concerned that certain exchanges of commercial property, which currently enjoy a tax deferral, would face immediate taxation.', 'But the bill included no such changes to the industry, and developers are thankful.', '“I think Trump, having lived through a couple of real estate cycles, probably is in tune with this more than the average policy maker,” said Martin Schuh, the head of government relations at the CRE Finance Council, a commercial real estate advocacy group. “Him being an active industry participant gives him an insight that most folks don’t have.”', 'Mr. Trump is no stranger to how taxes can affect his industry. In 1991, he appeared before the House Budget Committee and laced into the tax overhaul ushered in by President Ronald Reagan five years earlier. Mr. Trump, a property developer at the time, said the legislation, which Republicans and the president himself now herald, was responsible for sinking commercial real estate prices and ushering in an economic downturn.', '“This tax act was just an absolute catastrophe for the country, for the real estate industry, and I really hope that something can be done,” Mr. Trump said then.', 'This time Mr. Trump, who has the final signoff on any legislation, and his business empire have little to fear.', 'Companies can now deduct their interest expenses on commercial loans, but under the House bill, certain industries would face a cap on the amount of interest that could be deducted each year.', 'But that cap would not apply to commercial real estate.', 'So-called like-kind transactions allow businesses to defer taxes on deal making if they do not pocket the cash. For instance, if a developer decides to sell a midsize office building to reinvest in a larger one, the proceeds would not be taxed immediately.', 'While the plan does end the tax deferral for personal property exchanges, commercial real estate developers would keep the benefit.', 'Carried interest is another big item that property developers were watching closely. Mr. Trump said many times on the campaign trail that he would close the “loophole” that allows hedge fund and private equity managers to have their compensation treated as capital gains and taxed at a rate of 23.8 percent, rather than as income, which is taxed as high as 39.6 percent. Partners at real estate firms receive similar treatment for returns on some of their investments.', 'Surprisingly, the House plan does not address carried interest and the issue is largely moot because the new tax rate for pass-through businesses — which account for most real estate investment partnerships — would fall to 25 percent.', 'Commercial real estate lobbyists remain cautious, since the bill could change as it moves through the House and Senate.', 'The sector’s residential real estate brethren are already feeling the pain of a tax plan that they say could rock the housing market by curbing the appeal of and limiting the mortgage interest deduction.', 'Like the housing industry, commercial property was also hit hard during the financial crisis as companies laid off workers and needed less office space. While the market has largely rebounded, the Federal Reserve warned this year that property valuations were of “growing concern” and that appetites for commercial real estate lending could start to tighten.', 'That Mr. Trump’s industry has not been targeted with new taxes could provide fodder for critics of the Republican tax plan who have argued that the president is promoting policies that will enrich him and his family. Democrats have said that Mr. Trump must release his tax returns to provide transparency over potential conflicts of interest that he might have.', '“At the very same time that Trump’s plan undercuts the home mortgage tax credit — and a host of others that middle-class Americans rely on — in order to finance a new giveaway to the wealthy and large corporations, he’s including provisions that benefit his very own industry,” said Andrew Bates, a spokesman for American Bridge, a Democratic political action committee. “This entire administration is set up to help Trump profit.”', 'Over the years, Mr. Trump has used the special tax benefits that cover the real estate industry to his advantage. A $916 million net operating loss that he incurred in 1995 became useful because it could be carried forward to allow Mr. Trump to avoid paying income tax on future income for the next 20 years. That provision has been limited somewhat in the current version of the House plan.', 'After the Reagan tax act, property prices declined because of a higher capital-gains tax rate and limits on deductions for some business losses.', 'Those in the industry now hope that the president has not forgotten.', 'TOKYO — Toshiba, the embattled Japanese conglomerate, said on Thursday that it needed more time to choose an outside investor for its microchip business, extending a period of uncertainty for the company as it seeks a multibillion-dollar cash infusion to stabilize its finances.', 'Toshiba has veered among competing offers to buy a portion of the profitable chip unit. That business is the second-largest producer of so-called NAND flash memory chips, which are used to store data in smartphones and other digital devices. (Samsung Electronics of South Korea is the biggest.)', 'It was the second time that Toshiba missed a self-imposed deadline to complete a deal for the business, which analysts say could be worth upward of 2 trillion yen, or around $18 billion.', 'Toshiba needs the money that a sale would bring in to fill a hole in its balance sheet left by steep losses on nuclear power projects in the United States.', 'Toshiba’s board met on Thursday for what had been billed as a decisive vote to choose a buyer. Instead, the company said it was still weighing offers from three groups of investors: Bain Capital, the American investment fund, which has joined with two Japanese government-backed financial firms; Western Digital, the digital storage company based in the United States; and Foxconn, the contract manufacturer based in Taiwan that makes phones and other devices on behalf of Apple and other global brand names.', 'Toshiba said in a statement that it had “exercised its best efforts to reach a mutually satisfactory definitive agreement” but that negotiations had “not reached the point” at which the board was able to make a decision.', 'Among the would-be buyers, the role of presumptive favorite has changed hands more than once.', 'In June, Toshiba said that it was entering exclusive talks with the Bain group, which also included a Japanese government-controlled investment fund, the Innovation Network Corporation; the Development Bank of Japan, a state-owned bank; and SK Hynix, the South Korean technology company.', 'Toshiba said its decision was based on price and on promises by the consortium to keep employees and sensitive technology in Japan.', 'But the choice provoked a furious response from Western Digital. The American company shares ownership with Toshiba of a NAND production operation in Japan, and Western Digital argued that Toshiba could not sell its chip business to an outside party without its approval.', 'Facing legal pressure from Western Digital, Toshiba backed out of a commitment in late June to conclude a deal with Bain and its partners. It then resumed talks with Western Digital and its financial backer, the American investment firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, and other bidders.', 'Western Digital’s chief executive, Stephen D. Milligan, arrived in Tokyo this week in what was widely seen as a sign that his company was close to winning Toshiba’s approval for its offer. But the Bain group has not given up.', 'Toshiba has been stung by accounting irregularities and losses from nuclear power projects in the United States by its subsidiary Westinghouse, which filed for bankruptcy protection in March.', 'A video posted on Instagram Sunday night recorded some of their final moments: Young faces, glowing in the pink light of dusk, smiling wide as their sightseeing helicopter lifted off the ground.', '“In the air!” one of the passengers, Trevor Cadigan, appears to shout over the sound of whirling blades.', 'Only a few minutes later, the chopper descended into the frigid and fast-moving waters of the East River. The pilot, Richard Vance, 33, cried “engine failure” in a mayday call and turned the helicopter away from the busy streets of Manhattan. Of the six people on that flight, Mr. Vance was the only one who survived.', 'Among the dead, the oldest was just 34.', 'Mr. Cadigan, 26, was aboard with Brian McDaniel, also 26, a friend from their high school days in Dallas. Carla Vallejos Blanco, 29, of Corrientes, Argentina, was visiting New York with a friend, a woman who decided to skip the flight. Two other men were killed: Tristan Hill, 29; and Daniel Thompson, 34, whom a law enforcement official described as an employee of the helicopter tour company that operated the craft.', 'Mr. Hill was engaged to be married, according to his younger brother, Brendan. The date was less than two months away.', '“He always inspired me to be better,” Brendan Hill said. “I was getting ready to write a speech for the wedding, not the eulogy for his funeral.”', 'Tristan Hill was one of three brothers raised in Reno, Nev. He played basketball at Missouri Valley College, and he stayed involved with the sport after graduation. He coached with the Boys and Girls Club of America and organized a charity basketball camp for children in Reno, a fund-raiser for the Boys and Girls Club.', 'Brendan Hill said he was always jealous of his brother’s drive, and Mr. Hill’s short career showed a young man with wide interests and varied talents. He worked at the Sierra Nevada Corporation for a time, and briefly co-owned a bar in Reno called the Stamp Social Club, which was in the basement of an old 1930s post office. He even interned on Capitol Hill for Representative Michael R. Turner, a Republican from Ohio.', 'In a statement on Monday, Mr. Turner said: “Tristan’s personality, intellect, and constant smile were always on display when he worked with us. I was deeply saddened to learn of his passing and my prayers go out to his family. The joy and happiness that he brought to all of us will not be forgotten.”', 'But it was Mr. Hill’s latest venture, his younger brother said, that brought him into the tourist helicopter. He moved to New York a few months ago to work on a sightseeing website called SightSy, where he was the director of operations. One of the activities listed on SightSy is the “Manhattan Sky Tour: New York Helicopter Flight.”', 'Mr. Hill’s other brother, Iain Hill, wrote a tribute to him on Facebook.', '“The world lost a legend last night,” he wrote. “Few have brought so many together. It is in that vein I post, to help let those people know … It never mattered the schedule, if there was an experience to be lived, or more important a friend in need, he rose to the occasion.”', 'Ms. Vallejos Blanco arrived in New York from Argentina on Wednesday and was planning to stay for a week, said Mateo Estremé, the consul general of Argentina in New York. Roxana Blanco, Ms. Vallejos Blanco’s aunt, told Pulxo, an Argentine radio station, that her niece’s traveling companion decided she would rather skip the Sunday evening ride.', '“Carlita liked to take pictures and wanted to take pictures from the helicopter, and her friend wanted to do something else,” Ms. Blanco said. “So they agreed to meet at a certain spot later.”', 'Also on the ride was another young person who had recently moved to the city: Mr. Cadigan, the man who took the video. He studied journalism at Southern Methodist University in Dallas and recently moved to New York to work at Business Insider, a business news website. He graduated from Bishop Lynch High School in Dallas in 2010, according to WFAA, a Dallas television station and ABC affiliate, where his father, Jerry Cadigan, is the production manager.', '“For all of us who had worked in journalism and knew what it took to get out there and get it done, every one of us thought that Trevor had it,” said Tony Pederson, the chairman of the Division of Journalism at Southern Methodist, who taught Mr. Cadigan in a media ethics course. “Teaching Trevor made all of us pretty optimistic about the future of journalism and news media.”', 'Mario Ruiz, a spokesman for Business Insider, said Mr. Cadigan was an intern at the website until a few weeks ago. “He was a smart, talented, and ambitious young journalist and producer who was well-liked and made a big contribution,” Mr. Ruiz said in an email. “Our hearts go out to his family and friends.”', 'Mr. Cadigan was on the helicopter with his friend from high school, Mr. McDaniel. The two were on the football team together and remained friends after they graduated. Mr. McDaniel was a firefighter with the Dallas Fire-Rescue Department and had been on vacation in New York. He was a fire rescue officer assigned to Fire Station 36 in West Dallas, according to a statement from Dallas Fire-Rescue officials. Mr. McDaniel had been with the department since May 2016.', 'Christopher L. Rebuck, the president of Bishop Lynch, said he saw Mr. McDaniel in November when he came by the high school campus to get transcripts. “He was absolutely so proud that he was in a position to be able to serve his community as a fireman,” Mr. Rebuck said. “I could tell that he had really found his place in terms of vocation and what he was meant to do.”', 'Mr. McDaniel’s father, Allen L. McDaniel, said he was too distraught to talk about his son on Monday morning.', '“I just can’t talk about it right now,” he said. “He’s a great kid, and so was Trevor, his friend that he was with.”', 'His voice caught, and Mr. McDaniel began to cry.']