['When New Jersey announced a $7 billion package of tax incentives to try to lure Amazon’s second headquarters to Newark, local officials saw a chance to jump-start a city that has long struggled with poverty and joblessness.', 'Many economists, however, saw something else: a failed development strategy that they had hoped was falling out of favor.', 'In their view, tax incentives are little more than corporate giveaways that divert money from education, infrastructure and other priorities that ultimately do more for a region’s economy. In the last decade, those arguments seemed to be gaining traction, as state and local officials put limits on once-generous handouts.', 'But that restraint may be crumbling. Several locations like Chicago and suburban Montgomery County in Maryland have offered Amazon their own nine- and 10-figure incentive packages. The Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Foxconn last year persuaded Wisconsin to offer more than $4 billion in tax credits and other inducements to build a new plant. And the next big competition could be taking shape: Apple announced plans last week for a new campus somewhere in the United States, although it said it did not plan an Amazon-style public auction.', '“The stakes are getting higher and the deals are getting worse for the taxpayer,” said Amy Liu, director of the Metropolitan Policy Program at the Brookings Institution and a longtime critic of tax incentives.', 'More than 200 North American cities submitted bids for Amazon’s second headquarters, and the enthusiasm is hardly surprising. The e-commerce giant has said it plans to invest as much as $5 billion in the project and to hire up to 50,000 workers, most earning high salaries. Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics, said the project could be “transformational even for a big city.”', 'But the project also carries risks. Accommodating Amazon’s thousands of workers will require hiring more teachers, widening roads and building more housing. The costs for those upgrades will fall on residents and existing businesses.', 'Gina Schaefer, who owns a dozen hardware stores in the Washington area, said she did not mind paying taxes, and had learned to deal with the bureaucratic hurdles that come with running a small business in the area. But she said it was frustrating to watch local governments — three of the 20 finalists for the Amazon project are in the Washington area — roll out the red carpet for a multibillion-dollar corporation. Suddenly, she said, her tax dollars could be flowing to one of her most daunting competitors.', '“There are no incentives for those of us who are already here,” Ms. Schaefer said. Alluding to Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, she added, “Why should the richest man in the history of the world get money to open his business?”', 'Indeed, tax incentives tend to flow overwhelmingly to big, established companies, rather than to the local start-ups that research has shown are a more significant source of job growth. And some who have studied the issue say incentives rarely work: Companies will play cities and states off one another to save money, but ultimately base site-selection decisions mostly on other factors.', 'Megan Randall, a researcher at the Urban Institute who studies economic development policy, said companies cared most about a talented work force, which requires good schools and colleges, and amenities like affordable housing, parks and public transit that make a place desirable. Tax incentives, she said, make those investments harder for local governments to afford.', '“Those dollars are things that could go toward educating kids, building roads, investing in quality of life for your residents,” Ms. Randall said.', 'Many local officials acknowledge the downsides to incentives, and say they try to build in protections, such as clawback clauses that require companies to repay incentives if they do not hire as many workers as promised. But they say that refusing to offer incentives at all is the equivalent of unilateral disarmament.', '“Nobody wants to get involved in it, nobody wants to have to do this, but we’re in a competitive environment,” said Dennis M. Davin, secretary of community and economic development for Pennsylvania, where two cities — Philadelphia and Pittsburgh — are among the 20 finalists for the Amazon project.', 'Still, until recently there had been signs that cities and states were, if not declaring a cease-fire, at least taking steps toward de-escalation in the incentive wars. Counties in Ohio and Colorado reached regional agreements to stop using tax breaks to compete with one another, and Florida’s Legislature voted to rein in that state’s business incentive program. Several states commissioned audits of their programs and took steps to make them more transparent.', 'And although megadeals never disappeared, the growth of incentives programs did slow for a period. Timothy J. Bartik, an economist at the Upjohn Institute in Kalamazoo, Mich., has compiled a database of state tax incentives dating back to 1990. The value of such incentives soared in the 1990s, Mr. Bartik has found, but has largely leveled off since the early 2000s.', '“It really seemed like the incentive competition had kind of stabilized,” Mr. Bartik said.', 'Economists are not opposed to all incentives in all cases. Publicly funded transportation upgrades or job-training programs, for example, can help entice companies while also benefiting existing businesses. Tax credits aimed at revitalizing abandoned, polluted or blighted areas can encourage development that eventually expands a city’s tax base.', 'That is essentially the approach taken by New York, another Amazon finalist. Alicia Glen, the city’s deputy mayor for housing and economic development, said Amazon would probably get hardly any tax breaks if it chose to locate its second headquarters in Midtown or Lower Manhattan, the city’s two traditional business centers. But the company would get tax breaks if it selected less-established sites in Brooklyn or Queens. Those incentives, she noted, are available to any company that locates in those areas, although New York State could also offer its own tax breaks.', '“We don’t rely on incentives, but we do have incentives in place to encourage companies to go to parts of the city that they might not otherwise consider,” Ms. Glen said.', 'Other cities, though, may already be buckling to the competitive pressure. After New Jersey announced its incentive package, Maryland countered with its own $5 billion package. Few packages rival those bids in scale, but other cities have come up with their own creative offerings. Columbus, Ohio, for example, would waive all property taxes for Amazon for 15 years, subject to certain conditions, and would give back a share of the income taxes paid by Amazon’s employees to the company in cash.', 'Many cities have kept the details of their bids under wraps, but have left little doubt that they are open to negotiations.', '“We’re not going to be outbid on Amazon doing business here,” said Mike Rawlings, the mayor of Dallas. “We dream no small dreams here. We want to be the biggest and the best.”', 'But even in Texas, there are limits.', 'Nelson W. Wolff, the county executive whose domain includes San Antonio, said he would have loved to see Amazon open its new headquarters there, but he was not interested in breaking the bank to make it happen. In a letter to Mr. Bezos in October, Mr. Wolff and Ron Nirenberg, San Antonio’s mayor, said the city would sit out the process and instead invest its resources in education and housing.', '“I knew it was going to be a big bloody incentive war,” Mr. Wolff said, “and I just didn’t think we’d be able to play in that kind of game.”', 'LOS ANGELES — I want movie studios to keep their grubby paws off my money. And I want complete control over how my films are marketed.', 'Most marquee directors hold those twin desires, but none more than Steven Soderbergh, the iconoclast behind “Erin Brockovich,” the “Ocean’s Eleven” series and “Sex, Lies and Videotape.” Exasperated by the movie business, both financially and creatively, he announced his retirement from film directing in 2011. He said “Side Effects” in 2013 would be his last film.', 'Now he is back — and betting that an unorthodox distribution plan for his new heist comedy, “Logan Lucky,” will serve as a model for auteur directors who are as fed up with the Hollywood system as he has been.', '“After years of shooting my mouth off about absolute creative control, we’re going to attempt to do it,” Mr. Soderbergh said.', '“The question is this,” he said. “Can you do what the studios normally do from a wide distribution standpoint, only with a lot fewer resources — spending on marketing — and with a much better economic structure for the people who actually made the film?”', 'The financial story of “Logan Lucky,” which arrives in theaters on Aug. 18, starts in the fall of 2014. According to Mr. Soderbergh, a “friend” asked him to read the script, about a ragtag group that robs a Nascar track, and suggest a director. Mr. Soderbergh said he loved the idea (Ocean’s 7-Eleven, if you will) and wanted to direct the film himself.', 'But first he needed a plan that satisfied his creative and economic demands. It was relatively easy to raise the $29 million or so needed to make “Logan Lucky,” which stars Channing Tatum, Daniel Craig and Riley Keough. Once his cast was in place — all agreeing to work for scale, with profit participation if the film succeeds — Mr. Soderbergh sold off overseas distribution rights, a standard practice in the independent film business. Voilà: creative control over the actual film.', 'But distribution would not be so easy.', 'The standard option for a wide release, meaning at least 2,500 locations in North America on opening weekend, involves renting a major studio’s machinery. A studio like Warner Bros. foots the marketing bill (about $40 million is standard for a production like “Logan Lucky”) and handles all aspects of the release. For its services, the studio collects a fee (roughly 15 percent of total ticket sales) and deducts its expenses. Any remaining profit goes to the owners of the film.', 'For Mr. Soderbergh, that route was a nonstarter. “You’re way too far away from your money,” he said.', 'Mr. Soderbergh also wanted to spend much less on marketing. It would stand to reason that a studio would, too. But it is actually in a studio’s interest to spend more — that way the box office total is usually bigger, which in turn means a bigger fee. It is also extremely hard to get studios to rewrite their marketing playbooks. With dozens of movies on the assembly line, overwhelmed studio executives tend to go with what has worked in the past.', '“I understand why they resist new ideas,” Mr. Soderbergh said. “With so much money at stake, it’s hard to sit in that room and say, sure, let’s jump off a cliff and try a whole new approach.”', 'In addition, Mr. Soderbergh, who won an Academy Award in 2000 for directing “Traffic,” wanted full creative control over “Logan Lucky” advertising. He said studios had never given him absolute say over a campaign. Trailers, for instance, are tested with focus groups before they are released and often tweaked based on the responses. “It’s very difficult once you get into studio testing to push back,” Mr. Soderbergh said.', 'As he explored options, Mr. Soderbergh first considered forming an alliance with the National Association of Theater Owners, a trade organization. Why not cut out distributors completely by going straight to multiplex operators? Mr. Soderbergh soon realized that was not an ideal solution, in part because the Justice Department keeps close tabs on the adherence of theater chains to federal antitrust laws.', 'Mr. Soderbergh ultimately connected with Hollywood’s leading authority on distribution: Dan Fellman, a former Warner Bros. executive who now runs a consulting business. Mr. Fellman, who became an executive producer on “Logan Lucky,” devised a plan that Mr. Soderbergh liked.', 'They would raise about $20 million in marketing money by selling off a portion of the film’s nontheatrical rights. Amazon, for instance, bought streaming rights.', 'Then they would make an atypical distribution deal with Bleecker Street Media, an upstart with a total staff of about 20. Bleecker Street would execute the marketing campaign — with Mr. Soderbergh approving everything — and receive a token fee of less than $1 million. If the film hit certain box office thresholds, Bleecker Street would receive a slice of ticket sales. Bleecker Street would also participate in other revenue streams, including DVD sales.', 'Mr. Soderbergh noted that the box office bar for success is lower under this setup. With nearly everything prepaid, and no hefty distributor fees coming off the top, even a modest $15 million opening would be a win.', '“All of our financial interests are aligned,” said Andrew Karpen, Bleecker Street’s chief executive. “Logan Lucky” will easily become Mr. Karpen’s biggest release to date, surpassing the thriller “Eye in the Sky,” which collected about $18.7 million last year on about 1,000 screens. Bleecker Street also has dibs on a “Logan Lucky” sequel.', '“We know that a lot of big-time filmmakers are watching this,” Mr. Fellman said. “We want this to be the beginning of a bunch of movies.”', 'So far, Mr. Soderbergh has spent only about 15 percent of his “Logan Lucky” advertising budget. With only three weeks until release, studios would have typically spent 40 percent. But Mr. Soderbergh believes that the vast majority of marketing should come immediately before a film’s release.', '“I was also very adamant about the trailer,” Mr. Soderbergh said. “I wanted it to feel like a throwback and not seem like it gave away all the jokes.” He said the trailer was not tested with a focus group.', 'Outdoor “Logan Lucky” ads are concentrated in the Midwest and South. Bucking studio tradition, billboards are scarce to nonexistent in cities like Los Angeles and New York.', '“Logan Lucky,” which has received very strong early reviews, has also generated headlines over its script. The screenplay is credited to Rebecca Blunt, who does not seem to exist. Who wrote it?', 'That mystery may be part of the marketing plan.', 'In response to questions about the screenplay’s author, Mr. Soderbergh said in an email, “Clarify? Me? Why would I do that? I can tell you that Rebecca Blunt is enjoying all this immensely.”', 'Who’s next?', 'That’s the question being not-so-quietly whispered around the business world these days. Will one of the former business leaders in President Trump’s inner circle resign, following the disintegration of the president’s various business councils last week? Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin? Gary Cohn, the president’s chief economic adviser?', 'The answer is, well, nobody is next, at least not yet.', 'And despite all the hand-wringing, that may be the right answer.', 'Last week’s abandonment of President Trump by the leaders of America’s largest corporations was a resounding signal to the country and the world that they won’t tolerate anyone — even the president — coming to the defense of those who preach indefensible hate.', 'But it is being misunderstood as the country searches for meaning amid the anguish over the events in Charlottesville, Va., leading to almost existential questions about the role of corporations as a new form of moral authority, filling a vacuum left by our political leaders.', 'The resignation en masse was symbolic. Importantly symbolic. But nothing more.', 'Lest anyone believe that the business world has collectively gotten up from the table and washed its hands of Washington and the Trump administration, think again.', 'Companies will continue to advocate their positions, forcefully, in person and through lobbying groups. The only difference is that they won’t be sitting in meetings described as “councils” with cameras and photo opportunities.', 'The people in Mr. Trump’s inner circle have a much harder decision to make.', 'On one hand, some of them have said they are privately disgusted with the president — not only over how he reacted to Charlottesville, but regarding all manner of items and issues. They could leave in defiance, and some would be applauded for doing so, perhaps even improving their own reputations.', 'But they would be leaving the president, and the country, in a dire position.', 'Mr. Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, said as much to his classmates at Yale, who had written him an open letter calling for him to resign.', '“I believe that having highly talented men and women in our country surrounding the president in his administration should be reassuring to you and all the American people,” he wrote in a response posted on Twitter.', 'That response may not satisfy everyone. Larry Summers, the former Treasury secretary under Bill Clinton, wrote on Twitter that he could understand that Mr. Mnuchin might make a different decision than he would in deciding to stay on in the administration. But he then took direct aim at Mr. Mnuchin, writing: “@stevenmnuchin1 invests his credibility in defending @realDonaldTrump. Will he have credibility when financial crisis requires it?”', 'Mr. Summers followed up by adding: “Presidents are poorly served by sycophant advisers who reflexively flatter & defend them. I’m disappointed in @stevenmnuchinstatement.”', 'But here’s the practical question: Say what you will about Mr. Mnuchin, but he at least has a legitimate résumé of real experience. Given the chaos and infighting that has plagued this White House, do you think that there is a lengthy list of talented individuals with professional experience lining up for his job?', 'Unlike the business “councils,” the roles in the administration that people like Mr. Mnuchin and Mr. Cohn inhabit are more meaningful, even when they are not successful in swaying the president.', 'In some ways, it was easy for the C.E.O.s to abandon the president — especially given the safety in numbers — because so many of them privately say they felt like props that enabled Mr. Trump to look like a businessman to voters who have no idea he was never one of them. On the flip side, Mr. Trump was a prop in the business leaders’ plan to promote changes to regulatory rules and tax laws, and thus make their businesses more profitable.', 'For all the credit that the C.E.O.s were given for their “courage” in leaving the council, let’s be honest: The one who deserves the most credit is Ken Frazier, the chief executive of Merck, who took the lead. The rest were followers. There are two others who haven’t gotten a whiff of credit but should: Bob Iger, chief executive of Disney, and Elon Musk of Tesla, who left the councils long ago because they could not abide the president’s decision to abandon the Paris climate accord.', 'Still, while those executives and their peers may not be sitting in the Oval Office anytime soon, they won’t be that far away.', 'Ginni Rometty of IBM said so in her memo to employees: “IBM will continue to work with all parts of the government for policies that support job growth, vocational education and global trade, as well as fair and informed policies on immigration and taxation.”', 'And the real estate mogul and Trump backer Tom Barrack made this case in a statement he made available to the media: “The president of the United States, now more than ever, needs to maintain contact with a qualified and diverse group of official and nonofficial advisers and experts on varied and distinct concepts. Business leaders and C.E.O.’s are an essential silo of that group.”', 'He added: “To abandon the input of constructive opinions from qualified, nonpolitical, individuals who are fortunate to be called upon by the president for advice is counterproductive to an objective of supplying him with a diverse, realistic and at times contrary pool of expert thought and advice.”', 'The same case could be made for the people sitting with Mr. Trump in the White House.', 'Perhaps the bigger question is whether Mr. Trump will tolerate so many members of his inner circle — including family members like his daughter Ivanka and her husband, Jared Kushner — seemingly portraying their roles as keeping the boss from hurting himself. After all, the president‘s favorite phrase — which he once tried to trademark — is “You’re fired.”', 'Do you think of hotel rooms as having spacious, old-school desks, the kind that invite long hours of working? And bureaus with a half-dozen drawers? Minibars, too? Well, perhaps you haven’t stayed at a hotel lately.', 'Ben Schlappig, a 26-year-old travel blogger and consultant, has spent more nights in hotels than many people will in a lifetime. So he knows firsthand about the changing design of guest rooms, and he is not completely happy about it.', '“I’m a millennial, but I’m also an introvert,” said Mr. Schlappig, whose blog, One Mile at a Time, chronicles the 365 nights a year he stays in hotels. “Hotel executives are building everything around millennials right now and they expect all millennials to want to work in these hip, communal lobby spaces or in bed,” he said. “That doesn’t work for me.”', 'Mr. Schlappig has complained online about the disappearance of those desks, something a fellow business traveler, the Yahoo sports columnist Dan Wetzel, noted in a Twitter post in 2015 meant to mobilize his “fellow desk-loving Marriott patrons.” Sometimes, Mr. Schlappig said, “there’s not even a functional work space, like a table and a comfortable rolling chair, with proper space to put your laptop.”', 'Closets, too, are being eliminated in favor of hanging racks, he said. “Or sometimes, there’s no place to hang your clothes at all.”', 'Still, millennials — even extroverted ones who have earned that generation its reputation for valuing get-out-of-your-room-and-explore experiences — may not be to blame for rooms that have started feeling more space-age than familiar.', 'According to Michael Suomi, principal and vice president for interior design at Stonehill & Taylor, an architectural firm in New York that works with Marriott, Hyatt and other hotel brands, the changes are aimed at keeping pace with the changing needs of all business travelers.', '“Since the advent of the iPhone and the iPad, how business travelers interact with their spaces has changed significantly,” Mr. Suomi said. “In the past, people would travel with briefcases full of documents. They needed a lot more space to work, and they’d have to go down to the business center and print things out and fax it to somebody.”', 'Those days are long gone, he said. So, too, are most trips that last longer than a day or two because of technological changes, including online meeting tools like WebEx. “Changes in technology have changed the expectations of what a traveler needs in a hotel,” Mr. Suomi said. As a result, rooms are being redesigned at a record pace, often every six months, he said.', 'The lack of closets in new chains like Moxy, a Marriott spinoff now open in New Orleans and Tempe, Ariz., reflects research showing that guests often do not bother to unpack anymore, said Mr. Suomi, who designed the New Orleans hotel. The bureau-less rooms also demonstrate that dresser drawers are now seen as liabilities. “They’re just one more place for a guest to leave something behind and then the hotel has to send it to them.”', 'But there is another reason closets are becoming scarce at niche brands like Moxy, whose average room rate is $244 a night, and Vib, an ultramodern offshoot of Best Western that will open its first three locations this year in Staten Island, Chicago and Springfield, Mo.', '“A room can start to feel pretty small when you put a closet and a dresser in,” said Ron Pohl, the chief operations officer and senior vice president for Best Western.', 'But the feeling of smallness in modern guest rooms may be less the fault of closets than of the fact that they are actually shrinking. Guest rooms that were 350 square feet five years ago at what Mr. Suomi called the big three business hotels, Regency, Hilton and Marriott, are now often 275 square feet, he said. That, too, is a response to evidence that time is mostly spent elsewhere. Guest rooms at the new boutique hotels like Moxy and Vib are even smaller, he said, averaging about 200 square feet.', 'That leaves little space for traditional furnishings. But it paves the way for designs like the one at Moxy, which encourages guests to manage their own spaces by hanging almost every piece of furniture on the wall, Shaker-style, and the one at Vib, which will offer platform beds so suitcases can be stowed underneath.', 'Among the furnishings hanging from hooks at Moxy are small tables that double as desks, Mr. Suomi said. “People still want them,” he said.', 'Desks will be in every Vib room, too. “We were never in support of removing desks from guest rooms,” Mr. Pohl said. “But the desk area will double with some drawer space at Vib.”', 'Multifunction desks — often movable tables paired with desk-height swivel chairs that a guest might put to use as a dining table — have also become standard at many flagship Marriotts, the chain that bore the brunt of customer complaints about the removal of desks from some locations a few years ago.', '“What we heard from guests is that the solution we provided didn’t meet their needs,” Matthew Carroll, vice president for global brand management at Marriott Hotels and Resorts, said of the rooms that experimented with swapping traditional desks for tabletop work surfaces. “We responded very quickly. Where we’ve landed is at a place that gives guests multiple points to work within a room.”', 'So every Marriott guest room now has a desk, often in addition to a movable table that can accommodate a laptop. The room also has plenty of places to charge devices, should guests choose to work from their beds instead of the desk or table.', 'Stephani Robson, a senior lecturer at the Hotel School at Cornell University’s SC Johnson College of Business, said business travelers should expect to experience such design flaps as hotel chains try to figure out how their customers work.', '“We’re going to see more tensions in the next few years, like with the desks, as hotels try to capture smaller and smaller slices of the market,” she said.', 'There are now more than 500 hotel brands divvying up those slices, she said. But that does not mean a brand has been dreamed up to suit business travelers of every preference and predilection.', 'For example, “as a middle-aged woman, I want my closet,” Dr. Robson said. Mr. Schlappig wants to be left alone rather than herded into loungelike lobby space where he is expected to both work and mingle. And Brian Kelly, an entrepreneur who travels 125 nights a year to help other travelers maximize their frequent flier and credit card points through his website the Points Guy, wants his minibar back.', '“When I’m exhausted and thirsty, I don’t want to have to leave my room to go get water because there’s no minibar. That’s one of my biggest rants,” he said. (Dr. Robson confirmed that minibars are, in fact, becoming extinct. “They take up space and energy and they require a lot of labor to maintain,” she said.)', '“Confusion is a good word to use right now,” Dr. Robson said. “What I think is going to happen is, there will become a different brand for every niche, and you’ll become loyal to the brand that gives you what you want, like coffee, a closet and a desk if you’re a business traveler. But right now, with all these new brands, it’s hard for the average consumer to keep them straight.”', 'Should Dr. Robson’s prediction prove correct, one group of travelers who might not find a brand to latch onto are older business travelers.', '“I don’t know of anyone creating a new brand that’s going after older guests,” she said. “Which is kind of interesting, because arguably baby boomers have the most money to spend.”', 'But that niche, like Generations X and Y, may have already adapted to guest room design tweaks.', '“Are there still business travelers like Willy Loman who go around with their Skyriter typewriters and their hard-shell Samsonite suitcases, wearing their hat with a feather sticking out?” Mr. Suomi asked. “I don’t think that traveler still exists.”', 'A lower tax rate for corporations. Reduced taxes for partnerships like law firms. An easy way to bring overseas profits back to the United States without being taxed.', 'Corporate America had a long wish list when it came to tax reform, and on Wednesday, President Trump gave companies just about everything they wanted.', '“This is much more than I think anyone could have hoped for,” said Robert Willens, an independent corporate tax expert. “I’ve never seen something like this. Taken together, this is the most dramatic and beneficial group of corporate tax reform suggestions we’ve ever had.”', 'The list of those who stand to benefit from the proposed tax plan, which Mr. Trump promoted on Wednesday during a speech in Indianapolis, is long. Individual earners, small businesses, law firms, hedge funds, manufacturers and multinational corporations could all see dramatic tax cuts.', 'There is no certainty that the main points in the White House plan will become law. Congress must now turn the nine-page proposal into a passable piece of legislation. But business leaders were nonetheless quick to applaud the broad outlines of the proposal, claiming that tax cuts they would spur new investment and grow the economy.', 'Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase and the chairman of the Business Roundtable, called the plan “an encouraging step forward in our shared goal of a tax system that delivers higher economic growth, job creation and wages that our country desperately needs.”', 'John Stephens, the AT&T chief financial officer, said it was “a big step toward meaningful reform that would encourage more investment and job creation in the United States.”', 'And U.S. Chamber of Commerce’s chief executive, Thomas J. Donohue, said the proposed tax cuts were “good news for American families and employers.”', 'Yet even as business leaders salivate at the prospect of lower taxes, skeptics are questioning whether companies would actually invest tax savings in things like factories and jobs, and whether such cuts would meaningfully help the economy, which is already expanding.', '“This is a very cynical document,” said Edward D. Kleinbard, a tax expert at the University of Southern California law school. “The extraordinary thing about the proposal is that we know that it loses trillions of dollars in revenue, yet at the same time the only people we can identify as guaranteed winners are the most affluent.”', 'While the tax plan includes numerous changes to the ways individuals are taxed, some of the most far-reaching reforms would be for the companies that have long complained of an overly burdensome tax code.', 'One of the most sweeping proposals would be to lower to 25 percent the tax rate for so-called pass-through businesses, which are currently taxed at the individual rates of their owners. Such a change would dramatically lower the taxes paid by the majority of American businesses. Some 95 percent of companies in the United States are structured as pass-through entities, generating the bulk of the government’s tax revenues.', '“A lower rate for pass-through entities is essential to ensuring small businesses are not left behind,” said Jay Timmons, the chief executive of the National Association of Manufacturers.', 'Another major development, especially for big companies that have long complained about their tax rate, would be the proposed lowering of the corporate tax rate to 20 percent, well below the current rate of 35 percent.', '“A significantly lower corporate tax rate will help U.S. companies compete with companies from other industrialized countries and spur long-term economic growth,” said Mr. Stephens. “For AT&T, we would step up our investments in the technology and next-generation networks that are engines of our modern economy.’’', 'The White House said that a corporate tax rate of 20 percent would increase American competitiveness, bringing the rate below 22.5 percent, which is what it claimed was the average corporate tax rate in the industrialized world.', 'But tax experts questioned the White House’s accounting. “To use the 22.5 percent is simply intellectually dishonest,” said Mr. Kleinbard of U.S.C. “We’re including countries like Macau and Moldova in that number.”', 'When countries’ tax rates are weighted by gross domestic product, the actual average is closer to 29.4 percent, according to the Tax Foundation.', 'Regardless of the benchmark, the White House is pushing a dramatic cut to the corporate tax rate. “It’s going to increase corporate profits dramatically,” said Mr. Willens, the tax expert who has advised companies for 40 years. “It’s unbelievable to contemplate after all these years of doing this.”', 'Perhaps the most dramatic suggestion in the tax plan is for a territorial tax system, which could allow multinational corporations to mostly avoid paying the United States government taxes on their overseas profits.', 'Right now companies must pay steep taxes if they want to repatriate earnings made abroad, leading big corporations like Apple to keep billions of dollars overseas. And while details of the proposal were scarce, and may yet include some tax on foreign profits and a one-time repatriation tax on existing overseas profits, the broad outlines of the plan were good news for big business.', '“Moving to a territorial system is unbelievable,” said Mr. Willens. “It’s incredible to think that they are going to be able to repatriate foreign earnings without any tax at all.”', 'Opponents point to studies showing that repatriation does not necessarily lead to greater investment or job creation by businesses.', 'The Trump administration made no mention on Wednesday of how it planned to pay for such steep tax cuts, which could cost $2.2 trillion, according to the Committee for Responsible Federal Budget, a nonprofit group. And from the moment it was announced, critics of the plan called it a giveaway to the rich.', 'Business leaders, too, seemed to appreciate the fact that enacting a giant tax overhaul was no sure thing, especially after several failed attempts to overhaul the health care law.', '“It’s crunchtime for Congress,” said Mark A. Weinberger, chief executive of the financial services firm EY and chairman of the Business Roundtable’s Tax and Fiscal Policy Committee. Claiming that the president’s tax plan would “create jobs and growth” with lower tax rates, Mr. Weinberger said, “Congress needs to preserve these elements and fill in the details quickly so the proposals can become law by year’s end.”', 'And even if the broad outlines of the proposed tax overhaul do get passed, amounting to a windfall for businesses large and small, there is one way the plan could adversely impact the economy.', '“This isn’t good for tax professionals,” Mr. Willens said. “There are people who have spent their whole careers trying to figure out how to repatriate overseas profits and lower corporate taxes. If this goes through, there won’t be much for them to do.”', 'Paul Chabot, a Republican, ran in the fall for Congress from a part of California’s Inland Empire that was once reliably Republican. That was the best way, he figured, to revive a community he remembered from his childhood as being safer, more prosperous, with better public schools and less liberal politics. It was his final effort trying to make things work in California.', 'Mr. Chabot lost by 12 points. By Thanksgiving, he, his wife, Brenda, and their four children were touring North Texas in a rented S.U.V. looking for a new home.', 'In the language of political science, they were sorting. The Chabots left a part of the country where they believed they no longer fit in as conservatives for a new community where they felt sure they would.', '“I see it even more boldly — as escaping,” Mr. Chabot said from McKinney, Tex., where the family settled this year.', 'Their migration is precisely the kind Bill Bishop described in his 2008 book “The Big Sort,” which posited that Americans have been self-selecting since the 1970s into like-minded communities that are less likely to hold competitive elections. San Bernardino County, which the Chabots left behind, leaned Democratic in the last three presidential elections. Collin County, Tex., where they landed, has gone Republican the last 13.', 'In the decade since Mr. Bishop’s book came out, researchers have intensely debated his thesis about how sorting happens, and the extent to which it happens at all. Do Americans really have politics in mind when they decide where to live? Is it possible that people who move for other reasons could bolster geographic polarization anyway? Or is today’s political map — Democrats in Los Angeles, Republicans in the Texas suburbs — more a product of voting patterns changing in place than of voters changing addresses? (Donald J. Trump’s win in Michigan, for example, wasn’t caused by lots of Republicans moving there.)', 'Mr. Chabot is saying out loud what is more often subtext in this debate. If there’s little evidence Americans think of moving as a political act — and even Mr. Bishop argued that sorting arises from behavior that’s not explicitly political — Mr. Chabot has declared that it is. Since arriving in Texas, he has even started a business on that premise.', 'While others have mused about relocating liberals to red states to tip their elections, Mr. Chabot’s company, Conservative Move, wants to help conservatives migrate to solidly conservative places. He has turned the Big Sort into a real estate strategy.', '“A hundred people have talked to me going, ‘Oh my goodness, why didn’t I think of that?’ ” said Derek Baker, a Texas real estate agent now working with Mr. Chabot. “And I said that, too.” He previously spent 25 years in Washington, D.C., as a lobbyist and conservative congressional staffer, including for Mike Pence, then a congressman.', 'When Mr. Baker left Capitol Hill for his native Texas in 2011, he researched election results in the previous three presidential races before settling in Collin County, too. Most families he hears from now don’t do that kind of political calculation — and he and Mr. Chabot say they’ve already been contacted by about 2,500 since starting Conservative Move’s website in May.', '“They’re not asking me for the percentage breakdown that went for Trump in the last cycle,” Mr. Baker said. “They’re asking for really good schools, a really safe community, an affordable house, low crime and a place to raise their kids. This is the part that gets Paul and I in trouble with liberals and Democrats sometimes, but it’s true: What kinds of policies support those kinds of communities? Conservative policies for the most part.”', 'Mr. Baker says he is now running custom multiple listing service searches for about a hundred households serious about moving. A dozen families have closed on a new home or are close to it, Mr. Chabot said. He estimates that about three-quarters of the people they’ve heard from live in California, and most are targeting Texas, but also Idaho, Utah, Arizona, South Carolina and Florida. The company, which acts as a real estate referral business funded by a commission on home sales, plans to build a network of politically conservative real estate agents in other conservative parts of the country.', 'The families that want to follow what the Chabots have done tell only one side of the story, of conservatives uncomfortable in more liberal parts of the country. But their responses give a window into why people might feel compelled to sort. Conservatives have written in that they feel “stifled,” “oppressed,” “trapped,” not “tolerated” and “belittled” in California, a set of terms that might equally describe liberals outnumbered in conservative places.', '“It caused me over time to be less vocal about my politics,” said Kevin D. Korenthal, referring to California’s increasingly liberal embrace of immigration, legal marijuana, cap-and-trade and what he calls multiculturalism in schools. Mr. Korenthal’s family moved from Southern California to McKinney this year, after he learned of the Chabots’ move.', 'Mr. Korenthal had been hiding his politics in his home state. “A lot of people, that’s what they have to do in order to survive, to have friendships,” he said.', 'Constantinos Dracopoulos, who recently took a medical retirement from the Air Force, worked with Mr. Baker to find a home in Garland, Tex., that he will close on at the end of the month. He felt unvalued as a veteran in his native California, where he said people seldom thanked him for his service. Texas has reduced property taxes for disabled veterans and because it has no income tax, doesn’t tax military retirement pay as California does.', '“They would give more rights to an illegal immigrant rather than treat their own a lot better,” he said of California’s policies.', 'The Chabots describe fleeing long commutes, rising gas taxes and unbearable home prices. They were wary of the public schools in California and the potential crime flowing from its overcrowded prisons.', '“We tried everything we could in California — we fought and fought and fought,” Mr. Chabot said. “At the end of it, you can’t help people who don’t want to help themselves. A majority of voters have spoken, they wanted a progressive, and that’s what they’ve got. But I’ve got a choice.”', 'It’s possible that liberals in deep-red America might respond to a parallel offer, a Liberal Move. In a 2014 survey by the Pew Research Center, 50 percent of people who are “consistently conservative” and 35 percent who are “consistently liberal” said it was important to them to live in a place where most people share their political views.', 'It is less clear, though, how many people actually act on that sentiment. Most movers are primarily concerned with job prospects and affordable housing. Political considerations come later, if at all. And one study, by Jonathan Mummolo and Clayton Nall, argues that it would be hard for most people to sort into places that are more partisan once they’ve satisfied those economic criteria. (If conservatives in California want to move somewhere really red, they can choose from a number of very rural American communities, but the job prospects there aren’t great.)', 'There is some evidence, though, that people do head for politically like-minded places, even if they don’t think of those moves as political. One study that relied on the voter files of millions of people in seven states, by Wendy Cho, James Gimpel and Iris Hui, found that registered Republican movers show a preference for ZIP codes that are more heavily Republican than the ones they left. Democrats do the same, although to a lesser degree.', 'Another study, by Ian McDonald, used the Postal Service’s change-of-address database to show that people were more likely to move to congressional districts that matched their self-reported ideology. And researchers at RAND have found that congressional districts (and counties) have become more different from one another over time in ways that suggest “clustering” by people who are similar in their politics, income, education and marriage rates.', 'The scale of what Mr. Chabot is doing, even if he’s wildly successful, probably won’t alter the political map. And many researchers believe the country remains less divided than Mr. Bishop suggested. But Mr. Chabot’s idea raises the same provocative questions “The Big Sort” did. In the theory of sorting, it is not just Texas that would be changed by this process, but California and other blue places left behind, too.', '“If you’re a Democrat and you hear that Paul Chabot wants to move Republicans out of the state, you should be having a party,” Mr. Korenthal said. “This means you’re going to be challenged even less. But is that really good for the state?', '“I haven’t gotten anyone to answer that question for me honestly.”']