['At a time when news about Russia, health care, terrorist attacks and horrific fires dominates the headlines, it can be easy to forget that Congress continues to try to undo the regulatory reforms enacted in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis.', 'And the Trump administration, despite getting into office on a wave of populism, seems quite willing to embrace Congress’s rather conventional deregulatory agenda. ', 'One core piece of the congressional drive to dismantle Dodd-Frank is the move to repeal orderly liquidation authority and with it the special powers of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to deal with big bank insolvency. Instead, Congress would leave the failure of big financial institutions to the general bankruptcy system.', 'If one desires to return to the Gilded Age, with a financial crisis at least once every decade, this is a splendid plan.', 'A group of professors recently wrote Congress to alert it to the folly of repealing orderly liquidation authority and replacing it with bankruptcy. The professors’ letter is fine as far as it goes, but it does not go far enough.', 'The professors largely take Dodd-Frank at face value: When a big bank fails, we should try to use the bankruptcy courts first and resort to orderly liquidation authority only in extreme circumstances. That is fine in the abstract, but it bears thinking a bit more deeply about this issue.', 'Is it really plausible that any of the top half-dozen or so American financial institutions could resolve their financial distress in bankruptcy court? It could happen, just as I may travel to Mars some day.', 'More realistically, we have to worry that the hurdles to such a case, and the potential knock-on effects, are so significant that such a bank failure would and should proceed immediately to orderly liquidation authority.', 'That means that “bankruptcy for banks” should primarily focus on other creatures. For example, it might make sense to devise a bankruptcy court procedure for the next tier of banks and broker-dealers, should they fail. At present the failure of one of the larger “regional” bank groups might overwhelm both the F.D.I.C.’s traditional bank rescue tools and the bankruptcy code.', 'Seen in that light, it is at least as important that the bankruptcy code address a wide range of financial institutions as it stands ready to address the failure of the next Lehman Brothers.', 'This reveals the fundamental problem with Congress’s present approach. Not only would it leave regulators with no tools to address the failure of a big financial institution, but it would replace that approach with a form of bankruptcy that would be entirely useless for those financial institutions that might actually use a bankruptcy filing.', 'In particular, Congress’s proposed bankruptcy process for banks tries to move the “single point of entry” strategy developed for the big banks in orderly liquidation authority to the bankruptcy court. Under this strategy, a bank is recused by forcibly converting junior debt to equity.', 'All the big American banks are revamping their capital structure to facilitate single point of entry. The medium-size financial institutions are not.', 'So Congress proposes to kill off orderly liquidation authority, the tool that would be of most use to the really big banks, and replace it with a bankruptcy system that will be irrelevant for the really big banks and won’t work for medium-size banks.', 'As a result, we will bail out both in the next financial crisis.', 'MOORESVILLE, N.C. — Business is booming here at the Trump National Golf Club.', 'The real estate office is selling million-dollar homes, the membership roster is nearly maxed out, and the private club is booking a record number of events, including a sold-out “Bag-Lady Luncheon,” where luxury leather handbags were auctioned for a charity that supports military veterans.', '“How do we get busier?” asked Jennifer Minton, the club’s controller, during a recent tour of the grounds. “We only have so many weekends.”', 'It is a very different story in Los Angeles.', 'The Trump National Golf Club there, a public course, has seen a double-digit drop in revenue from golf in the first six months of 2017 compared with a year earlier, according to documents obtained through a public records request. A large crowd assembled this spring, but they were protesters spelling out “RESIST!” with their bodies.', 'The divergent fortunes of the North Carolina and Los Angeles clubs reflect a broader pattern across President Trump’s business empire: The red-blue political divide is not only informing the president’s policies, it is influencing his family-owned company’s bottom line.', 'Mr. Trump’s most recent financial disclosure statement, a 98-page report in June, showed that the Trump Organization brought in at least $597 million in revenue during his 2016 campaign and the first few months of his presidency, down about 3 percent compared with his previous filing in May 2016.', 'But an analysis by The New York Times of financial records, and interviews with club members and employees, show that most of his golf venues fared better in areas that supported President Trump in last year’s election than in those that did not.', 'The club here north of Charlotte is deep in Trump territory — the adjacent neighborhood, named the Point, is perhaps best known as home to more than a dozen Nascar drivers and crew chiefs, and precinct records show nearly 70 percent of area voters favored Mr. Trump over Hillary Clinton.', '“We think of them as family here, not just owners of the club,” said Chuck McAllister, an executive at a global shoe-box manufacturing company, who held a fund-raiser for Mr. Trump last summer at the golf club. The event, he said, attracted nearly 300 supporters, including North Carolina’s then governor, and raised more than $1.4 million.', 'Revenues were also rising at the Trump golf clubs in Jupiter and West Palm Beach, Fla., two of the three golf clubs that the family owns in the state. Mr. Trump carried Florida in the election.', 'Until the violence in Charlottesville, Va., which generated a wave of cancellations at the Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Fla., business at that Trump property was also climbing, according to the president’s financial disclosure report.', 'That report paints a darker picture in states that Mr. Trump lost.', 'The Trump SoHo condominium-hotel in New York and the Trump International Hotel & Tower Chicago — both cities that are liberal strongholds — are seeing signs of hardship, according to two employees briefed on the company’s financials who were not authorized to speak publicly about them.', 'The red-blue contrast is even more apparent with the golf courses. Revenues over the past year have declined at the Ferry Point golf club in the Bronx, N.Y., at the Bedminster club in New Jersey, and at the club in Westchester County, N.Y., just a few miles from Mrs. Clinton’s home. Mr. Trump lost both states by large margins.', 'At the club in the Bronx, which is open to the public, golfers played about 2,200 fewer rounds in the most recent fiscal year, an 8 percent drop compared with a year earlier, according to data The Times obtained through a public records request from the City of New York.', 'The Trump Organization does not dispute that some properties are showing sensitivity to political factors. In June, the company introduced a line of budget-conscious hotels — the first are planned for Mississippi, which Mr. Trump won by an overwhelming margin — with a name, American Idea, that echoed the president’s campaign themes.', 'But in an interview, Eric Trump, who runs the family business along with his brother Donald Jr. and a small group of veteran executives, said that there were other variables that contributed to changes in revenue, including the activities of competitors. The company owns, operates or manages 16 golf courses — a dozen of them in the United States — and a collection of office properties and smaller business ventures. There are also eight stand-alone hotels, including six in the United States, all in major cities that voted for Mrs. Clinton.', '“The company is doing extraordinary well, and I am extremely proud of our respective teams,” Eric Trump said, referring to staff members who run the business operations.', 'There are exceptions to the red-blue trend. Revenue was down in the last year at Trump National Doral Miami after the PGA Tour decided to move to Mexico a tournament it had sponsored at the club for decades.', 'And the Trump International Hotel in Washington, where residents voted overwhelmingly for Mrs. Clinton, has been doing better than the company had expected, according to financial records that the government mistakenly released this summer.', 'In the first four months of this year, the hotel generated more than $18 million in revenue and turned a nearly $2 million profit, far eclipsing the $2 million loss the company had been prepared to shoulder. Just five blocks from the White House, the hotel has become a gathering spot for Republican officials and lobbyists.', 'In New York, another Democratic city, the scene has been quite different. On three recent visits to the hotel in the upscale SoHo neighborhood of Manhattan — a glass tower that the Trumps operate — a reporter found the building’s poolside bar lightly trafficked and its mezzanine restaurant vacant, save for one table of two men.', 'The ground-floor lounge, a dimly lit room decorated with vintage Life Magazine and Playboy covers in a self-aware nod to “the gentlemen of the 1960s,” is closed Sundays through Tuesday, and an Asian restaurant there recently shuttered altogether.', 'Across the Hudson River in New Jersey, which also voted for Mrs. Clinton, Mr. Trump’s Bedminster club saw a 4 percent dip in revenue, according to the president’s financial disclosure.', 'One member who left the club last year, and who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he still lived in the area, said he departed because of controversial statements Mr. Trump made during his presidential campaign.', 'A hospital, a community nonprofit group and a private school that each previously held events at the club moved their gatherings elsewhere this year, according to a person briefed on Bedminster’s operations but not authorized to discuss them, who said that several longstanding members have either taken leaves of absence or left the club this year.', 'These changes have occurred even as the club was buzzing with activity. Mr. Trump, during the presidential transition and in the summer, has frequented the Bedminster club, which also hosted the United States Women’s Open in July.', 'In Los Angeles, the Trump club is attracting fewer rounds of golf — and less interest from Hollywood producers, who previously shot a range of commercials and movies there, including “Horrible Bosses 2.” In 2015, the Trump course issued 14 permits for film shoots; it fell to five permits in 2016 and four so far this year, according to data obtained from the public records request.', 'The Westchester club in New York has experienced a 6 percent decline in revenues and has lost several members over concerns about politics, according to two former members, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to avoid alienating the Trumps.', 'That club has also attracted protesters. In June, hundreds of people marched to protest the Trump Organization’s efforts to lower its local tax bill, with some of the demonstrators reportedly chanting “pay your share.”', '“I think people see it as trying to get away with something at the expense of others, and I think that breeds resentment,” said Dana Levenberg, a Democrat who serves as town supervisor in Ossining, N.Y., which includes Briarcliff Manor where the club is.', '“I certainly cannot speak for everyone in the town, but I do believe people are frustrated about Trump National.”', 'Here in North Carolina, the Trumps have been embraced by most area residents. Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. have lockers at the golf club. And the club has a Trump Piranhas swim team and a Trumpeteers summer camp, both of which were filled with children this summer.', '“Those ‘Make America Great Again’ hats — there were a lot of them around here,” said Mike Carman who was playing on the course with several friends one recent afternoon.', 'The club charges a $25,000 initiation fee for golf memberships, monthly dues and fees of $725 and requires members to spend at least $150 quarterly at the club bar or restaurants.', '“I’m fed up with government, I’m fed up with taxes, and I’m fed up with regulation,” said a lumber wholesaler, who lives not far from what is known as Trump Square and who agreed to be quoted by name, but then asked not to be named — as did others, reflecting the fear of partisan rancor even in a Trump stronghold.', 'It is a New England-styled town center that features a Trump International Realty office, the Trump Bakery (where Trump wine and a long list of other Trump-branded products are sold), and a clubhouse and restaurant, among other businesses operated by the Trump Organization.', 'Even those not interested in discussing President Trump’s politics said they were appreciative of the millions of dollars in upgrades the Trump Organization has made at the club since buying it in 2012.', '“He did everything he said he was going to do,” said Tim Peticca, a software sales executive who is a golf club member.', 'Arjay Miller, who as Ford Motor Company president modernized the company’s management and marketed the original Mustangs, and who then switched to academia and elevated Stanford to the top ranks of America’s graduate business schools, died on Friday at his home in Woodside, Calif. He was 101.', 'The cause was a stroke, his son, Kenneth, said.', 'Raised as a Nebraska farm boy, Mr. Miller was one of the so-called whiz kids who persuaded Ford to hire them in the late 1940s from Harvard, where they had perfected statistical management techniques for the Army Air Forces.', 'Originally called the “quiz kids” because they peppered their Ford colleagues with probing questions, the team included Robert S. McNamara, who would also become a Ford president and later secretary of defense in the administrations of Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson.', 'During Mr. Miller’s presidency, Ford reported record sales and earnings, introduced the Mustang and other slick-back models and revolutionized its stodgy management and financial practices.', 'When Congress demanded that Detroit do more to prevent accidents, Ford responded proactively by acknowledging that the industry had been slow to embrace auto safety and pledging to support whatever federal researchers recommended.', 'As the dean of the Graduate School of Business at Stanford, in Palo Alto, Calif., for a decade, Mr. Miller expanded the curriculum to include public policy, social issues and ethics; hired the first women onto the faculty; recruited more minority students; increased the endowment; and upgraded the school into a worthy challenger to the business schools of Harvard and the University of Chicago.', 'Mr. Miller was no ivory-tower dreamer or Detroit desk jockey, though.', 'After riots devastated the slums of Detroit and other cities in the summer of 1967, he was named by President Johnson to a board that helped found the Urban Institute to address the underlying causes of the unrest. He also founded the Economic Development Corporation of Greater Detroit to support black-owned and black-operated businesses.', 'Mr. Miller was the first major business executive to advocate a negative income tax to alleviate poverty — that is, giving a family with no income a basic grant and reducing but not eliminating it as the family gained income from other sources.', 'His political philosophy combined social conscience with self-interest.', '“All we need to stay in business and grow,” he once said, “is to have more people and higher incomes.”', 'He was credited with having an encyclopedic arsenal of facts and figures and an insatiable curiosity, which he had evidenced since childhood, when he completely dismantled a vintage Model T that he bought for $10 to understand how it worked.', '“The rescue of Ford from a morass of internecine chicanery and chaos cannot be laid at a single person’s feet,” Hemmings Classic Car magazine said in 2007, “but Miller unquestionably did a great deal of the heavy lifting to save the company.', '“Unlike most heroes of the car business, he was not an engineer, stylist or designated product planner,” the magazine continued. “Miller was, instead, a person who could reconcile the realities of interpreting reams of data and inspiring others to apply it logically. His talent allowed him, in turn, to manage an unprecedented war, to help remake a troubled manufacturing giant, and to realize his ultimate legacy by grooming a new generation of top executives.”', 'Arjay Ray Miller was born on March 4, 1916, in Shelby, Neb., a village west of Omaha. The youngest of eight children, he was named for the first initials of his father, Rawley John Miller, a farmer. His mother was the former Mary Schade.', '“I always thought it was some help coming from a rural situation,” Mr. Miller told The New York Times in 1966. “You aren’t so perplexed about the world: Milk came from a cow, not from the grocery store. Eggs came from a chicken.”', 'After the family moved west, he earned a bachelor of science degree in finance and banking from the University of California, Los Angeles, in 1937. As a teaching fellow and graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, he completed all the requirements for a doctorate except for his dissertation, then worked as an economist for the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco.', 'Once the United States entered World War II, he tried to enlist in the military but was initially rejected because of poor eyesight. He was later drafted into the Army Air Forces, where he taught prospective pilots on a flight simulator and then was enrolled in a statistical regime for officers at Harvard.', 'When the war ended and he was discharged as a captain, Mr. Miller and the other nine members of his Harvard statistics group pitched themselves as a package deal to 100 companies. Only one, the Alleghany Corporation, responded.', 'Before they could be interviewed there, Mr. Miller saw a cover article in Life magazine about Henry Ford II’s search for executive talent to revive the company, which had been losing money for 15 consecutive years, and retool it to a civilian economy.', 'After they sent a telegram to Ford requesting a meeting about “a matter of management importance,” the company hired all 10.', 'Mr. Miller started in the finance department’s analysis unit. Focusing on marketing and engineering, he was promoted to a vice presidency in 1957 and was named Ford’s seventh president in 1963.', '“We’re lucky in the auto business,” he told The Boston Globe in 1966. “So many businesses have to work hard to create a demand. But for us, the minute a kid hits 16 he automatically wants a car.”', 'Yet he resented the notion that he was just an astute bean counter.', '“We weren’t a bunch of accountants,” he told Automotive News in 2003. “We knew the importance of people.”', 'Mr. Miller married Frances Fearing, an economist, in 1940; she died in 2010. They lived in Ann Arbor, Mich., a university town, rather than in Grosse Pointe or Bloomfield Hills, which were hubs for wealthy automobile executives.', 'In addition to their son, Mr. Miller is survived by their daughter, Ann Elizabeth Olstad; three granddaughters; and seven great-grandchildren.', 'In 1968, policy differences prompted Mr. Ford to name a new president. Mr. Miller became vice chairman of the company and dean at Stanford. He left as vice chairman a year later but stayed on the board until 1986.', 'While his salary dropped to about $40,000 a year from more than $400,000, he had always preferred academia — and besides, he still held Ford stock. He remained as dean at Stanford until 1979.', 'Mr. Miller was a leading proponent of incorporating ethics and social responsibility into the curriculum to lay the groundwork for cooperation between government and business.', '“Moral judgment transcends legalities,” he told The Times in 1979. In an article the next year, he made a similar point more bluntly.', '“There are plenty of people in jail today,” he said, “who passed college ethics courses.”', 'The stock market’s relentless gains have been getting the big headlines but the bond market’s performance has been startling, too — and in ways that are troubling for many investors.', 'Stocks and bonds are complementary partners in standard portfolios. While stocks typically have a higher return potential, bonds are generally less risky and provide a hedge against a stock market plunge, as they did during the bear market that started in 2007.', 'The dilemma now is that despite a rocky bond market over the last month, bond prices are still so high — and their yields so low — that bonds simply can’t provide much buffering.', '“It’s inescapable,” said Scott Clemons, chief investment strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman. “At their current prices, bonds can’t help as much in a stock downturn. And the likelihood is that in the next few years, bond returns won’t be very good, either.”', 'These gloomy tidings from the bond market have been overwhelmed by spectacular news on the stock side of things. Stocks have been surging for more than eight years and anyone lucky enough to have money in the market that long is sitting on sizable gains. Is it time to cash out of stocks? Maybe. But it’s possible that the good times will continue to roll.', 'As Laszlo Birinyi, the independent stock strategist who has been correctly bullish since early 2009, wrote in a note to clients this past week: “Our strategy remains unchanged. Stay invested, expect higher prices and ignore the noise from both the bulls and the bears.” Mr. Birinyi monitors fund flows in and out of stocks closely, and he says they provide a neutral signal. “The market continues to forecast a grinding trend,” he said.', 'Upward momentum is in the stock market’s favor. “Bull markets don’t simply die of old age,” Charlie Ripley, senior investment strategist for Allianz Investment Management, said. “We don’t see anything on the horizon that would cause the bull market to end.”', 'But stocks over all are no longer cheap. While the economy is still growing, despite evident political turmoil in Washington and elsewhere around the globe, it is easy to make a case for extreme caution in the stock market, given its elevated levels.', 'As I wrote in a column this summer, standard practice after a big run-up in stocks is to rebalance — meaning, to take profits out of stocks and put them into bonds. The goal is to create a well-diversified portfolio.', 'That is age-old advice. There is a problem with it right now, though: This is not an ideal moment to be putting money into bonds.', 'The immediate outlook for fixed-income investments isn’t wonderful, many strategists say. After all, bond prices rallied for many years, too, and are already at high levels. Yields, which move in the opposite direction, are extremely low on a historical basis, though they have been rising lately.', 'The last month, in fact, has been a poor one for bonds. The benchmark Bloomberg Barclays U.S. Aggregate Bond Index declined by half a percentage point. That would be negligible for the broad stock market but it’s a lot for bonds and it could presage further difficulties ahead.', 'While it’s difficult to pinpoint cause and effect, there are several logical explanations for the recent run-up in bond yields — and the decline in prices. They appear to be a consequence of expectations for change in both monetary policy — orchestrated by the Federal Reserve and other central banks — and in fiscal policy, which is the product of politicians in Washington and other capitals.', 'Briefly, the Fed has begun raising short-term interest rates and reversing the expansion of its balance sheet. It says it is likely to keep doing so, assuming that economic growth continues and inflation rises. Those changes in themselves could disrupt the bond market.', 'Furthermore, speculation about President Trump’s choice for Federal Reserve chairman is a factor. Janet Yellen, the Fed chairwoman, has favored relatively low interest rates, but her four-year term ends on Feb. 3. “Our view is that some of the alternatives to Janet Yellen are likely to be more hawkish on interest rates,” Mr. Ripley said.', 'Ms. Yellen could be reappointed. But other leading candidates include a current Fed governor, Jerome H. Powell, and a Stanford University economics professor, John B. Taylor. Mr. Powell is generally perceived to be close to Ms. Yellen in his views. Mr. Taylor has been a critic of the current Fed and has favored adoption of an algorithm to set monetary policy that could translate into a sharp increase in interest rates. The prospect of Mr. Taylor as Fed chairman has produced a spate of comments like this one, issued by Capital Economics on Wednesday: “ There is clearly a risk of a more hawkish Fed under Taylor’s leadership.”', 'Then, there are the bond market ripples caused by potential shifts in fiscal policy, including changes in the tax code. The details of an eventual tax overhaul — if there is one — are impossible to know now. But that hasn’t stopped investors from calculating the odds of various outcomes. A combination of rising government deficits and declining Federal Reserve bond holdings could produce the equivalent of an earthquake for fixed-income investors. Yields could rise sharply and prices could plummet.', '“It’s only the last few weeks that these possibilities have begun to be priced into bond prices,” Mr. Ripley said.', 'The bond market turmoil leaves investors in a bit of a muddle. The central reasons for holding bonds remain intact: Bonds will still buffer a portfolio and generate income. But in the near future, they aren’t likely to do so as effectively as in the past.', 'Prudent people should temper their expectations. That’s the advice of a man with a formidable track record, John Bogle, who founded Vanguard. “Current bond yields are an excellent predictor of returns for the next 10 years,” he reminded me in a phone conversation. Based on current yields, he estimated, a portfolio containing a mix of government and corporate bonds is likely to generate an annualized return of only about 3 percent.', 'That’s not much. But it’s not far behind his expectation for stocks. After the titanic rally, which has produced tremendous profits, he said, stocks have outrun fundamental values through “speculation” and are, therefore, likely to produce annualized stock returns of only 4 percent over the next decade, he said.', '“Compared with stocks,” he said, “bonds are a good value, better than they have been in years.”', 'It still makes sense to hold stocks and bonds in a diversified portfolio, he said, and his estimates are only that, estimates. Think it through for yourself, he said, and draw your own conclusions. Just be realistic about them.', '“Invest for the long run but don’t expect too much,” Mr. Bogle said. “If you do that, you won’t be disappointed.”', 'Yuta Suzuki was studying finance with the goal of becoming an investment banker. Then his father called.', '“He came to me with a serious face and said, ‘I heard you’re good at math,’” Mr. Suzuki, 37, said. “We have a small problem. We need your help.”', 'His father, Toshio Suzuki, was the chef and co-owner of the restaurant Sushi Zen, which had been a Midtown Manhattan institution for more than 30 years. And his problem wasn’t so small. “When I looked at the books it wasn’t healthy,” his son said.', 'But the son wanted to help. “I thought it was a great opportunity to try out what I could do,” he said. “I stared at everything from auditing, to regular food purchases, to how consistently everyone was cutting the fish.”', 'And in the process, he found himself working in a sushi restaurant. Five years later, Sushi Zen is closed, but father and son are continuing the family business in a new venture called Suzuki. There, the tables are turned, with the son running the business so his father can just make sushi.', '“When I was operating Sushi Zen, it was my duty solely to keep the business afloat and keep the guests happy,” the elder Mr. Suzuki, 71, said through a translator. “In the new place, financing and management are covered by my son. I wanted to focus on training and bringing up my younger staff.”', 'Conversations about family business succession are as complicated as families themselves, but since the businesses are usually the primary driver of wealth in the family, it is essential to have such discussions, uncomfortable or not. That doesn’t mean they go smoothly, or even happen when they should.', '“The business and the family are usually so intertwined,” said Karen Reynolds Sharkey, national business owner strategist at U.S. Trust, the banking company. “The business is really another member of the family as they grow up.”', 'The Suzuki family transition has been smooth so far. (A younger brother has not expressed interest in the business.) But advisers say that when transitions go smoothly, there has been a lot of planning, a bit of luck or both.', '“The challenges are, oftentimes, the kid doesn’t know anything about the business,” said Carl Genberg, national director of business transition planning for Wells Fargo Private Bank. “Does the kid want to work in the business? To what extent is the kid humoring the parents about wanting to work in the business?”', 'Jose Der emigrated from Cuba nearly 60 years ago and set up Der Dau, his custom boot-making business, in New York. It counts celebrities and fashion-conscious urbanites as clients.', 'His son Joseph, 44, said he had been groomed since age 8 to take over the business. “I grew up becoming a cobbler and learned all the trades from him,” he said.', 'His two sisters, by contrast, were not interested in the boot-making business, which made the succession decision easier.', 'Still, taking something that his father created and making it his own wasn’t easy at first. “He’s very old school, very traditional,” Joseph Der said of his father. “I like fashion. I brought out a lot of funny colors, and it took off.”', 'Mr. Der said that early on, when he wanted to make the family’s boots less traditional and more fashionable to attract clients like Madonna, he clashed with his father.', 'When his father, who is in his 90s, let him do that, he said he learned a valuable lesson: “If two people work together and they can kind of compromise with each other, they can work as a great team.”', 'For a family business to be passed on to a son or daughter, the critical factor is the desire of the child to be involved. “At the end of the day, it starts with what the second generation wants,” Mr. Genberg said. “You’re going to make something work that doesn’t work?”', 'Liza Towell Boyd, a top equestrian, had success riding other people’s horses since age 10. Her father, Jack Towell, said the family joked that her nickname was “cash machine.”', '“People would send me horses, and she’d ride them and make them famous and I’d sell them,” said Mr. Towell, who owns Finally Farm in Camden, S.C. “She couldn’t get paid, but I could.”', 'While Ms. Boyd, now in her late 30s, continues to compete on the national hunter jumper circuit, she has taken on more responsibilities with the family business, from training horses to teaching children and up-and-coming riders.', '“He’s my biggest cheerleader in competitions, but also on the business side, too,” she said. “You need someone there to teach you the ropes and to be honest and to work really hard and be dedicated.”', 'Married with children of her own, Ms. Boyd said that collaborating with a parent is a life’s work. “The toughest part is it never ends,” she said. “My phone is ringing over and over and over again for a question” from her father.', '“When I married my husband I said, ‘You’re marrying my father too,’” Ms. Boyd recalled. “He’s the first person to call in the morning and the last person I talk to at night.”', 'Dennis Shah started working in his father’s high-end wallpaper business, Chambord Prints, in Hoboken, N.J., straight out of business school in the 1980s. He had a good 20-year run before he realized he needed to take it in a different direction.', '“We were a factory, and business started to die out,” said Mr. Shah, 52. “Wallpaper was going out of style by 2005. I still had faith in the product.”', 'So he contracted with several artists to create custom wallpaper, to reinvigorate the company’s product line. “One of the big things is my father’s way of being able to trust me and being able to delegate and to think strategically,” Mr. Shah said.', 'His father, now 86, said he appreciated his son’s ability to inject a modern perspective. “Working together, we get ideas from each other,” said H. K. Shah. “I’m a 16th- century person. He’s a 21st-century person. It helps us get better and better.”', 'In some instances, the child needs to push back. Yuta Suzuki said his father’s vision for their new restaurant was to have a 10-seat sushi bar where he used only the best 30 percent of a fish and served it to be eaten immediately. His son pointed out that this was probably not the best way to turn a profit.', 'So they compromised. The elder Mr. Suzuki controls the sushi bar, but there are two other restaurants within the space — traditional kaiseki dining and a sit-down sushi space — to offer different dining experiences and bigger margins.', 'Daisy Medici, a managing director at GenSpring, a wealth management firm, says she encourages families that run businesses to develop voluntary governance policies. “They need to put policies in place with how they’re going to work together,” she said. “We have risk management policies, a code of conduct, trust distribution policies, vacation home policies.”', '“It’s not a legal document,” Ms. Medici said. “It’s a morally binding document.”', 'The likelihood of friction is high, but so is the opportunity to grow closer. The younger Mr. Suzuki, for instance, said that going into the restaurant business helped him understand what his father had been doing all those years. “I never experienced that father-son relationship because he worked six days a week, and then on Sunday he slept because he was so exhausted,” he said. “I got to experience the day with him and the chefs.”', 'Now that he is overseeing Suzuki restaurant, he said, he feels the pride of running something that helps his whole family. Where he struggles is calling himself his father’s boss. “I never pictured that I’d be hiring my father,” he said. “I try not to think of that.”']