['This year has been a big one for business news. But if you have some time during this holiday week to step back from the information onslaught, there are a handful of truly eye-opening business books that are worth your attention. As I do every year, I pored over dozens of books to identify several gems.', 'Perhaps the most illuminating business book of the year, for me, is Amy Goldstein’s “Janesville: An American Story.” If you really want to understand what’s going on in today’s real economy — beyond the headlines about new stock-market highs, tax policy or the latest list of billionaires — spend some time with this true tale of what happened in the middle-class town of Janesville, Wis., after General Motors closed a factory there.', 'Ms. Goldstein admirably shows all sides of this story, capturing in microcosm all of the issues that so many communities across the United States are facing. You will probably be left doing some hard thinking about what is driving the politics of the moment, although Ms. Goldstein brilliantly, and respectfully, paints the book’s characters with such nuance that readers from across the ideological spectrum are likely to arrive at different conclusions about heroes and villains.', 'In crafting this deeply reported and riveting read, Ms. Goldstein spent considerable time in Janesville. As a result, you get a palpable sense of what life is like there; of the financial and psychological impact that a major plant closing has; and of the knock-on effects such an event has on other businesses and institutions. She paints vivid portraits of characters who include laid-off workers seeking retraining, union officials and local politicians, Speaker Paul D. Ryan among them. If you liked “Hillbilly Elegy: A Memoir of a Family and Culture in Crisis,” J. D. Vance’s best-seller about growing up in Ohio and the decline of the industrial Midwest, I think you’ll find that “Janesville” makes these issues real in a new and compelling way.', 'While we’re on the topic of the declining middle class, Walter Scheidel’s “The Great Leveler: Violence and the History of Inequality From the Stone Age to the Twenty-First Century,” is a smartly argued book. As you may be able to tell from the title, Mr. Scheidel makes the case that throughout history, inequality has led only to terrible things (think pandemics and wars). For anybody who has ever debated issues related to inequality and their broader meaning, this book provides more than just a powerful thought experiment.', 'The next book on my list is not a business book exactly, but it does offer a lot of great lessons about leadership: “Grant” by Ron Chernow. Lloyd C. Blankfein, the chief executive of Goldman Sachs, has it at the top of his own reading list for good reason: In recounting the life of Ulysses S. Grant, Mr. Chernow illuminates a leader who almost wasn’t. A substantial portion of the book examines Grant’s many failures, in business, in politics and in his personal life. It was from those failures that Grant emerged to become a two-term president, and perhaps one of the nation’s most underappreciated leaders.', 'Another well-told book about leadership, one that intelligently masquerades as a book about sports, is Sam Walker’s “The Captain Class: The Hidden Force That Creates the World’s Greatest Teams.” Mr. Walker spent years identifying the most successful sports teams in history, and then tried to figure out what had made them that way. His answer: “The most crucial ingredient in a team that achieves and sustains historic greatness is the character of the player who leads it.”', 'With genuine insight, he describes seven characteristics of great captains, whom he refers to as Tier One captains. One trait in particular stuck out to me, especially in this age of selfies: “Most of the Tier One captains had zero interest in the trappings of fame. They didn’t pursue the captaincy for the prestige it conveyed.”', 'In the business narrative category — those fly-on-the-wall books filled with delicious details about corporate intrigue — the best were “The Spider Network: The Wild Story of a Math Genius, a Gang of Backstabbing Bankers, and One of the Greatest Financial Scams in Financial History,” by David Enrich, about the Libor scandal, and “Wild Ride: Inside Uber’s Quest for World Domination,” by Adam Lashinsky, about Uber.', 'Mr. Enrich, a former Wall Street Journal editor who is now an editor at The New York Times, turned what could have easily been a dry academic story into a page-turning, John Grisham-like thriller. Mr. Lashinsky’s book gives readers an inside view of the ride-hailing giant’s creation and what created the broken corporate culture that yielded so many negative news stories this year.', '“Wild Ride” offers a searing portrait of Uber’s former chief executive, Travis Kalanick, whom Mr. Lashinsky shows to be both a genius and wildly headstrong (and not in a good way). Because of when it was published, the book does not include many of the episodes that consumed Uber in 2017, including Susan Fowler’s viral blog post about the company’s misogynistic culture and the ouster of Mr. Kalanick. But until that book is written — and it surely will be — “Wild Ride” is a good primer.', 'Given all the rightful attention on sexual harassment in the workplace, it is worth revisiting Ellen Pao’s story as she tells it in “Reset: My Fight for Inclusion and Lasting Change.” A venture capitalist at the prominent Silicon Valley firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, Ms. Pao was one of the first to speak out publicly about a culture that is desperately in need of change and went to court to fight it.', 'Although she lost her case, she may have won something larger, or at least started a larger movement. “I could have received millions from my adversaries if I would just have signed a nondisparagement contract; I turned it down so I could write this book and share my side,” she writes.', 'If you’re a wonk, two books worth nerding out on are “Adaptive Markets: Financial Evolution at the Speed of Thought,” by Andrew W. Lo, and “Machine, Platform, Crowd: Harnessing Our Digital Future,” by Andrew McAfee and Erik Brynjolfsson. Fair warning: These books are not beach reads, but they do make significant contributions to the fields they cover.', 'Mr. Lo’s book offers a unique way to think about the idea of “efficient markets” — a new hypothesis worth considering about how markets can be rational and irrational at the same time. “Machine, Platform, Crowd” is a forward-looking take on how business will interact with artificial intelligence and what that will mean for the transformation of industries.', 'Finally, I wrote about it  this year, but if you haven’t read “Principles: Life and Work,” by Ray Dalio, do yourself a favor and do so. You’ll learn about Mr. Dalio’s novel approach to management, which involves focusing on your failures. Some of his strategies can be uncomfortable. But more important, if you’re willing to accept some of his unusual advice, you’ll learn things about yourself. It’s a book that forces you to be introspective and makes you want to learn from your own mistakes. I know it did for me.', 'Two of the Republican senators who have stepped forward to block the party’s dash toward a tax overhaul say they are withholding their support to stick up for Main Street. Big corporations, they argue, are being given preferential treatment compared with smaller businesses that are organized differently and known as pass-throughs.', 'The David-and-Goliath story that the senators, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Steve Daines of Montana, are spinning would be compelling — except that it is wrong.', 'Pass-throughs have a lower total tax burden than corporations do. That advantage exists now and remains in both the House and Senate versions of the tax bill.', 'If corporations are “the haves,” then pass-throughs are the “have-mores.”', '“I honestly don’t know what he’s talking about,” Alan J. Auerbach, a tax expert at the University of California, Berkeley, said of Mr. Johnson’s complaints. “Tax rates are going down a lot. It’s businesses versus everybody else.”', 'Businesses are taxed in different ways. Corporations and their investors are subject to two layers of taxation. First, a corporate rate on profits is paid directly by the company. Under current law, the top rate is 35 percent. Then, when the business pays returns to its investors, they pay tax on the money they’ve earned when they file in April. That income — dividends and capital gains — is taxed at a top rate of 23.8 percent. (Generally, if your income is less than $200,000, the rate is 20 percent.)', 'By contrast, pass-through businesses pay tax just once. These are small and mammoth partnerships, proprietorships and companies with fewer than 100 shareholders known as S corporations, and they include the corner grocer and deli owner, the National Football League and Fiat-Chrysler. They aren’t subjected to any separate business tax, but pay on their individual income tax when the money thrown off by the business is passed through to its owners. The rate depends on what bracket someone is in, but the highest is 39.6 percent.', 'So while the corporate rate by itself may be lower than the top pass-through rate, the total tax burden on corporations is higher. That is one reason so many businesses organize themselves as pass-throughs.', 'In the Republican rewrite of the tax code, both corporations and pass-throughs would see a huge cut in taxes. For corporations, the rate would drop to 20 percent. Rates would vary for pass-throughs, depending on how much income they earned, but the top rate in the Senate bill is 31.8 percent.', 'So which kind of business would you prefer to be if the Senate bill were law? Let’s assume that two businesses are the same in every way, except one is organized as a corporation and the other as a pass-through.', 'Hundred Corporation earns $100 in profits. A 20 percent tax rate would give $20 to the I.R.S., leaving $80 left to return to investors. That $80, when paid out, would be taxed at a flat 20 percent rate, giving the I.R.S. an additional $16, and leaving investors with $64.', 'The total tax rate turns out to be 36 percent. (Big earners pay an additional 3.8 percent on their dividend income, and they would owe even more.)', 'Now look at Hundred Partners, a pass-through that also earns $100. Even the wealthiest owners would pay no more than 31.8 percent in taxes.', '“As long as there is any tax at the corporate level, it’s going to be better to be a pass-through” in terms of lower rates, said Richard Prisinzano, senior economist with the Penn Wharton Budget Model at the University of Pennsylvania, President Trump’s alma mater.', 'Pass-throughs are often mistakenly thought of as small, middle-income businesses. Many are. But the overwhelming share of the money they generate goes to a tiny sliver of rich Americans. Nearly 70 percent of the total income earned by such partnerships goes to the top 1 percent, according to a Treasury Department analysis.', 'The National Federation of Independent Businesses has endorsed the bill. But several trade groups have joined Mr. Johnson and Mr. Daines in arguing that the bill does not do enough to help some pass-throughs compete with traditional corporations. Some, like the American Institute of Architects, complain that service providers — including themselves, dentists, accountants, lawyers and doctors — are not sharing in the windfall like other businesses. Others note that not every single pass-through would benefit.', '“The bill could provide only very limited benefits to investors in partnerships that have few direct employees, e.g., real estate partnerships,” analysts from PwC wrote this month. “In some cases, investors might face a lower overall tax burden operating such activities as a C corporation rather than as a partnership or S corporation.”', 'Mr. Prisinzano at Penn said such results would be possible — and would probably involve wealthy individuals deferring corporate returns — but that they would be the exceptions.', 'Besides, if business owners think being organized as a pass-through is a worse deal, they could simply convert to a corporation. “If pass-throughs really thought corporations were better,” Mr. Prisinzano said, “they could always check the box and be taxed liked a corporation.”', 'Kenneth Diederich, who traveled more than 68,000 miles last year and spent 192 nights in hotels, books his hotel rooms on Priceline.com, on Kayak.com or directly on hotel websites. He tends to book his airline seats on American Airlines’ site.', '“I use every tool available online, booking my own travel even though I could use our corporate travel agent,” said Mr. Diederich, 37, who is corporate executive chef of research and development for American Dining Creations of Syracuse.', 'Mr. Diederich, who is also an ice carver and executive director of the National Ice Carving Association, added that he preferred booking his own travel. “It’s all about the points.”', 'He is among those known in the corporate travel world as “rogue travelers” — those who book on their own. They are used to searching for the best fares, staying in unusual places and collecting reward points.', 'Yet companies want to control travel costs. And his company policy, like others, requires employees to let the corporation know where they are in case of an emergency, a terrorist attack or a natural disaster.', 'Mr. Diederich’s answer to that is simply, “I just forward the confirmation to the corporate travel agent.” That way, he travels how he wants to, he is reimbursed for his expenses and his company knows where he is.', 'A study in July by Phocuswright, a travel industry research firm, “The U.S. Business Traveler: Debunking Common Myths About Corporate Travel,” said that “managed travel implies control over the traveler’s actions.” But it found that business travelers were increasingly using their phones to plan and book their trips — outside their companies’ travel tools.', 'Most business travelers still book through the corporate booking tool or corporate travel agent, the study found. More than half said they always did, and a third said they usually did, while the rest may book directly with an airline, hotel or rental car company.', '“Fifty to 60 percent of hotel bookings always existed outside,” said John M. Rose, the chief operating officer of iJet International. “People of different generations are traveling who are used to everything being at their fingertips.” Compliance, he added, “is hard to mandate.”', 'Travel management companies believe the direct booking trend is here to stay. “Everybody has a policy, every company. But the traveler says, ‘I found a lower rate,’” said Greeley Koch, executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives.', 'Some corporate travel managers require business travelers who make their own arrangements to alert the corporate travel department or the travel management company with an email “so somebody knows where their people are and are they booking in a compliant way from a duty-of-care standpoint,” said Michael Steiner, executive vice president of Ovation Travel Group. “Some companies say if you book direct, you are not going to be reimbursed. If you report it, you will be reimbursed.”', 'Booking patterns vary depending on travelers’ habits and the tech tools they use. Larger corporations typically have more rules than smaller ones.', 'Rebecca Nittolo travels for business a couple of days a week for three of the four weeks each month. An associate director of sales for Education and Training Systems International in Chapel Hill, N.C., she said she mostly booked her flights and hotels through the company travel agent. When she is on business in Chicago, she books directly with a contact at the Deer Path Inn in Lake Forest, Ill.', '“I work at a small company,” Ms. Nittolo said. “They always know where I am. I’m always in communication with my team.”', 'Some corporations keep track of their travelers with Concur TripLink, which allows travel managers to capture data from every booking channel — flights, hotels and ground transportation — regardless of how business travelers have booked. There are also mobile apps that allow employees to check in with their company when they’ve landed, Mr. Rose, of iJet International, said.', 'The three issues that business travelers are most likely to encounter are petty crime and theft, medical and health situations, and bad weather. Still, travel risk depends on where travelers are headed, the profile of the travelers, and where they are meeting and with whom, said Erin Wilk, global travel safety and security manager for Facebook and chairman of the Global Business Travel Association’s risk committee.', 'Companies are also taking on more of a role in making sure their employees are safe. “We’re starting to see now a shift,” said Mr. Koch, of the corporate travel executives association, “an emphasis on duty of care, the corporation’s responsibility to its employees.”', 'If a corporate traveler is headed to a remote area in Nigeria or the Middle East or other Level 4 or 5 areas (with 5 the highest security risk), Mr. Rose said, a corporate travel manager might be thinking: “Wait a second. We didn’t know where you were because you were not following the protocols.”', 'The safety and security landscape has changed. Since a string of terrorist attacks throughout the world, including some in the United States, senior corporate executives and corporate travel managers are increasingly concerned with tracking their travelers throughout the globe.', '“Since the November 2015 Paris attacks, we have seen a 30 percent increase in North American clients adding travel tracking to their travel risk mitigation program,” said Matthew Bradley, regional security director in the Americas for International SOS and Control Risks.', 'William Besse, vice president in the consulting, investigations and international division at Andrews International, noted that it had become “more and more difficult to predict where violence will take place in the world,” adding, “It can take place anywhere, anyplace, anytime.”', 'In the event of an emergency, security companies can alert employees to what is happening on their next stop by text message, phone call or email. They can set up two-way communication to employees’ smartphones to ensure they are safe.', 'While the risk of a terrorist or “lone wolf” attack is very small, there is growing concern among corporate travelers as well.', 'According to a report this year from the Global Business Travel Association Foundation, “Risk on the Road: Safety and Security Concerns Lead to Traveler Behavior Change,” business travelers “view terrorism as the greatest safety risk they face on the road.” Close to half ranked it as their greatest concern when traveling for business, much higher than the more likely risks of street crime, theft and outbreaks of disease.', 'Business travelers, Ms. Wilk, of Facebook, said, can’t expect the “flexibility and the options they have in their personal travel.”', 'Good Monday evening. We’re closely watching reactions to the Republican tax plans, the Koch brothers’ role helping to finance Meredith’s purchase of Time Inc., and the leadership battle at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (Want this in your own email inbox each morning? Here’s the sign-up.)', 'Republicans’ latest stab at tax reform would likely be a boon to business moguls. But not everyone is interested.', 'Ken Griffin of Citadel said that he doesn’t need his taxes cut that much. Here’s what he said earlier today:', 'And Randy Levine, the president of the Yankees, wrote an open letter to President Trump on the conservative news site Newsmax calling for big changes to the proposed tax plans. From his missive:', 'It’s worth noting a couple of things:', '• Mr. Griffin might enjoy slightly less of a tax break than other financiers, since both the House and Senate plans would restrict carried interest’s lower tax rate to investments held for at least three years. But as CNBC previously pointed out, hedge fund managers generally don’t get much carry in the first place.', '• Mr. Levine describes himself as a longstanding backer of Mr. Trump.', 'Other members of the 1 percent are unhappy with the plan because they may lose out. Economists at Goldman Sachs have estimated that as many as 4 percent of New York State’s top earners could relocate because of a potential limit to deductions for state and local taxes. Bloomberg took a look at more of the efforts by officials in low-tax areas like Florida to lure unhappy New Yorkers thinking of tax-related moves.', 'During a conference call with analysts on Monday to discuss his company’s $2.8 billion deal for Time Inc., Meredith C.E.O. Steve Lacy said of the Koch brothers’ financing role:', 'But many in the media world have questioned whether the brothers actually will have no influence at Time Inc. publications. Among them are former editors at Time Inc. itself.', 'Politico’s Michael Calderone spoke to Richard Stengel, a former editor of Time, and John Huey, a former editor-in-chief of Time Inc.:', 'Other billionaires have invested in media properties without using them as a vehicle for their political beliefs. Peter Kafka of Recode points to Warren Buffett, who owns the Omaha World-Herald. (And we should note that billionaire Carlos Slim remains an investor in The New York Times Company.)', 'One group that’s not asking questions about the Meredith deal is Time Inc.’s coterie of shareholders. Shares in the magazine publisher jumped 9 percent to $18.42 this morning on news of the transaction.', 'After serving as the White House’s communications director for 10 days, Anthony Scaramucci has announced nebulous plans for some kind of media venture. Now he can add “potential litigant” to his résumé as well.', 'Lawyers for Mr. Scaramucci have threatened to sue Tufts University’s student newspaper and an op-ed writer over two columns that called the financier “unethical.” In a letter to The Tufts Daily, Mr. Scaramucci’s counsel demanded an apology for what they asserted were “false and defamatory statements” and a retraction of the two pieces. Otherwise, the former financier would “be forced to take further legal action.”', 'Mr. Scaramucci defended himself, repeatedly, on Twitter.', 'Tufts has postponed a speaking event featuring Mr. Scaramucci scheduled for later today, citing “legal matters.”', 'Deep cut: The conflict even revived Mr. Scaramucci’s once mildly famous quarrel with the financial columnist Felix Salmon:', 'The deputy director of the financial consumer watchdog, Leandra English has sued President Trump over who will lead the agency on an interim basis. But for now, both Ms. English and Mick Mulvaney, whom the White House has picked as acting director, have shown up for work, according to CNN.', 'In an apparent effort to win over his potential new colleagues, Mr. Mulvaney even brought a present.', 'The conflict will ultimately come down to which statute applies to replacing now-departed director Richard Cordray: the Dodd-Frank law that created the C.F.P.B., or the Federal Vacancies Reform Act.', 'Noah Feldman, a professor of constitutional and international law at Harvard University, argues at Bloomberg View that Ms. Engish’s “suit is a partisan maneuver that will detract from the seriousness of the effort to keep executive power in check where it matters.”', 'Asked by NBC News whether he had legitimate authority over the C.F.P.B., Mr. Mulvaney said, “Yes, yes I do.”', 'Extra credit: The International Business Times reports that a longtime aide to Mr. Mulvaney, Natalee Binkholder, now represents the bank Santander — which has been under scrutiny by the agency over its auto lending practices. Ms. Binkholder worked for Mr. Mulvaney until earlier this year.', 'Now that Meredith has officially announced a $2.8 billion deal to buy the beleaguered publisher — with a $650 million assist from the Koch brothers — the media industry is asking which parts will stay and which parts will go.', 'Analysts had long seen Meredith, which publishes Family Circle and Better Homes and Gardens, as being most interested in People, Time Inc.’s most profitable title. The more news-focused publications upon which Time Inc. was built, including its namesake magazine and Fortune, have traditionally been less of a focus for Meredith.', 'If Meredith decides to sell those news publications, who would buy them? The smart money is on a vanity buyer — perhaps from the same universe of investors who are pursuing Rolling Stone, which we hear could be sold as soon as this week.', 'The Koch angle ', 'Take note of this disclaimer about Koch Industries’ private equity arm:', 'A spokesman for Koch Industries told the NYT that the financing was a “passive investment.” But that hasn’t stopped people from wondering if the prominent donors to conservative causes would somehow use Time Inc. as another vehicle for their political activism. One possibility, according to the NYT: tying Time Inc.’s consumer data with the voter information held by the Koch-owned data analytics company i360.', 'The Trump angle', 'There was controversy over President Trump’s assertion that he turned down the chance to be named Time’s Person of the Year and the magazine’s rebuttal.', 'Critics corner', '• Peter Kafka writes, “The main question remains: Why do the Kochs want to get into the publishing business?” (Recode)', '• Jennifer Saba writes of the transaction, “It’s a lucky break because a go-it-alone strategy looked doomed. Bountiful cost savings, however, will go to the buyer and its new billionaire backers.” (Breakingviews)', 'Extra credit: Meet Reade Brower, the man who controls Maine’s newspaper industry.', 'Is it Leandra English, the deputy director of the bureau and the chosen successor of the now-departed chief, Rich Cordray? Or is it Mick Mulvaney, appointed by Mr. Trump to lead the agency on an interim basis?', 'Ms. English sued the president late last night to prevent Mr. Mulvaney from taking over. But the C.F.P.B.’s own general counsel, Mary McLeod, backed a legal memo from the Justice Department supporting the White House move.', 'At stake is the effectiveness of a bureau that Mr. Trump has publicly derided:', 'The stakes were already high. Mr. Mulvaney is on record as having called the bureau a “sad, sick joke,” leading many to suspect that, should he take charge, would seek to unwind Obama-era initiatives meant to protect financial consumers — and that have infuriated the banking and lending industries.', 'Now those same industries are worried about the uncertainty that has descended upon the bureau. Coverage by Yuka Hayashi of the WSJ:', 'In a potential attempt to win over C.F.P.B. staffers, Mr. Mulvaney brought in Dunkin’ Donuts this morning.', 'While the Justice Department battles AT&T over its proposed takeover of Time Warner amid questions about political motivation, Mr. Trump weighed in again on CNN:', 'That’s when the Senate Budget Committee is scheduled to vote on moving the proposal to the floor. Axios notes that two undecided Senate Republicans, Ron Johnson of Wisconsin and Bob Corker of Tennessee, sit on that committee.', 'But the big question remains: Can the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, prevent no more than two of his colleagues from voting against the tax bill? Mr. Johnson and Steve Daines of Montana worry that the current legislation favors big corporations over small businesses. Susan Collins of Maine has expressed worry over health care and deductions for state and local taxes.', 'Senate negotiators are weighing changes to please those holdouts, according to the WaPo. But Axios notes that the prevailing wisdom in Washington is that Republicans’ worries about failing to pass a tax change could push potential dissenters into backing the legislation.', 'The tax flyaround', '• A new analysis of the Senate plan by the Congressional Budget Office finds that, by 2027, households earning less than $75,000 would be worse off, and that the proposal would add $1.4 trillion to the national debt. (WaPo)', '• Republicans worry that the two Goldman Sachs alumni selling the tax bill for the White House, Gary Cohn and Steven Mnuchin, have not been effective pitchmen to middle-class Americans. (Politico)', '• Economists at Goldman reckon that the current tax proposals could prod about 2 percent to 4 percent of top earners in New York City to move elsewhere. And it could lower home prices by restricting deductions for property taxes.', '• The Communications Workers of America union has asked several companies that employ its members to promise to give workers a pay increase if the cut in the corporate tax rate goes through. (NYT)', 'The digital currency rose as high as $9,682 this morning, as part of its lightning-fast ascent in value in recent weeks. A month ago, it was trading below $6,000.', 'So far, Bitcoin observers are bullish on a continued jump in value because of investor FOMO:', '• Chris Weston, the chief market strategist of IG Group, told clients today, “Bitcoin has seen another frenzy of buying as the fear-of-missing-out trade bites even harder.”', '• Shane Chanel of ASR Wealth Advisers told CNN Money that he thinks the currency could hit $12,000, adding, “Greed will continue to drive the price over the short term.”', 'About those initial coin offerings …', 'Joe Grundfest, a former Securities and Exchange Commission official who now teaches at Stanford, thinks that the virtual currency sales being held by scores of companies are potentially rife with fraud and wants the agency to regulate them. Here’s what he told Nathaniel Popper of the NYT:', 'Foot traffic at brick-and-mortar stores was down 4 percent from the period a year ago, according to RetailNext. But online sales rose yet again, amid a battle between Amazon and Walmart — and things were anything but quiet at the warehouses that service e-commerce operations.', 'From Sarah Nassauer and Laura Stevens of the WSJ:', 'Extra credit, retail edition', '• Sarah Halzack writes, “If I were a retailer, I would tune out the funeral dirges being played for Black Friday and listen instead to what I assume your sales numbers are telling you: The occasion is still critically important.” (Gadfly)', '• Jeff Bezos’s net worth surpassed $100 billion on Black Friday. He’s the first person to hit those heights since Bill Gates did in 1999. (Bloomberg)', '• A tale of two Sears locations, one representing its dismal present and one marking what the retailer hopes is its brighter future. (NYT)', '• Amazon is courting vendors in India to sell on its platform. (NYT)', 'This week, Barron’s takes a look at how markets in China, Russia and India have been outperforming the United States:', '• Boris Collardi, the C.E.O. of Julius Baer, unexpectedly defected to a rival Swiss bank, Pictet. (FT)', '• Robert Lu, the ChemChina executive who spearheaded the company’s $44 billion takeover of Syngenta, has joined China Reform Holdings. (FT)', '• Harvey Schwartz, Goldman’s C.F.O. and a potential successor to Lloyd Blankfein, has a reported tendency to “mark to market” his underlings — meaning that, in accounting terms, he assesses their value to his objectives and treats them accordingly. (NYT)', '• The Chinese conglomerate HNA Group gave incorrect information about two of its stakeholders in its offer prospectus for its $1.5 billion deal to acquire the Swiss air-travel logistics company, Gategroup Holding, the Swiss Takeover Board found. (WSJ)', '• Uncertainty over the Affordable Care Act and the threat of companies like Amazon are prompting health organizations to expand, creating ties with former adversaries. (NYT)', '• Alex M. Azar II, President Trump’s nominee to lead the Department of Health and Human Services, is expected to face tough questioning at a Senate confirmation hearing, about why Eli Lilly and Company raised its prices while he was there. (NYT)', '• At Etsy, a new chief executive and a new focus on profitability have sapped the enthusiasm of many employees. (NYT)', '• Chinese tech shares seem to be setting up for a classic burst-bubble, John Authers writes. (FT)', '• One of the ironies of the global financial crisis: A decade later, a panic with origins in the United States has made the dollar more globally important than ever. (WSJ)', '• Growth in the amount of money being lent by banks is slowing, even as signs point to a more buoyant economy. (WSJ)', '• ICYMI: A new school in East Palo Alto for children from low-income families, funded by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, has been met with wariness, and some families have blamed the school for their recent evictions. (NYT)', '• Tencent rose to become a $500 billion company fueled by a culture of internal competition. Now those teams are working together to synchronize data and deliver targeted ads, with the aim of becoming a commercial powerhouse like Facebook. (Bloomberg)', '• Who gets to make money in space? The Outer Space Treaty may now be getting in the way of entrepreneurs. (NYT)', 'Each weekday, DealBook reporters in New York and London offer commentary and analysis on the day’s most important business news. Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.', 'You can find live updates of DealBook coverage throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.', 'Follow Andrew Ross Sorkin @andrewrsorkin, Michael J. de la Merced @m_delamerced and Amie Tsang @amietsang on Twitter.', 'We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.', 'Until this month, the scariest thing about the stock market was its uncanny calm and stability. Like the opening sequences of a classic horror movie, the market last year was relentlessly and unnaturally cheerful.', 'Well, now the ax has fallen and the stock market has begun a “correction” — financial jargon for a decline of at least 10 percent.', 'The scariest thing about the market right now is the shocked response of traders who had become accustomed to the unsustainably placid conditions that have been unceremoniously swept away.', 'The precise timing of the market plunge was a surprise, and it has evidently unnerved some investors. But while it may seem harsh to say so, after so many months of fizzy profits, a downturn was long overdue.', '“The movements we’ve been having the last couple of weeks may not be pleasant but they are entirely normal, on a historical basis, “ said Ryan Detrick, a senior market strategist for LPL Financial.', 'Based on the historical record, “normal” in the stock market includes unsettling conditions of the kind we have been experiencing lately. More of the same is likely in the months ahead: gut-wrenching swings down as well as up, rather than the steady gains that evidently lulled some investors into complacency.', 'That is not a declaration that the market is in deep trouble. Far from it. I don’t know where stocks are heading in the weeks ahead, but I assume, based on history, that they will eventually rise. “Eventually” is a word with a lot of wiggle room, however. Markets tend to overshoot, up and down, and they could certainly plunge much further.', 'That said, a good argument can be made that the underlying stock market fundamentals today are better now than they were a few months ago. After all, the economy appears to be fairly strong in the United States and in much of the rest of the world, and corporate earnings have been rising. Higher earnings and cheaper stock prices are an appealing combination. Using classic definitions, stock valuations have markedly improved in just a few months.', 'Last summer, when stock valuations seemed too rich, I followed my own advice and began to rebalance my 401(k) portfolio, reducing the ballooning proportion of stock, increasing short-term bonds and cash. That kind of heightened caution still seems wise but stocks (in the form of index funds) are beginning to look more appealing.', 'Still, the current downturn is a harsh reminder: The stock market entails risk, pain and losses, and it isn’t for everyone. Whatever “normal” is, it is nothing like the benign stock market of late 2016 or 2017.', '“What we have seen in the last week or two is minuscule compared with the amount of real risk that is coming in the months and years ahead,” said Salil Mehta, an independent statistician with deep experience in troubled markets and their consequences. He was the director of research and analytics for the federal Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation and for the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program, which was set up to help stabilize the financial system in the 2008 crisis.', 'Mr. Mehta’s view, which I share, is that a stock market decline of the kind we have been experiencing was overdue and that there is probably even greater volatility ahead. My own admittedly hopeful perspective is that declines now may reduce and postpone extreme speculative excesses later. Such excesses eventually lead to big market crashes and real pain for the broader economy.', 'In that context, the marvelous market conditions of last year were dangerous precisely because they were so seductive. As I wrote in August, the stock market in 2017 was magical — so strangely sedate that it was statistically improbable. That relentlessly rising market was an outlier that could not be sustained.', 'Consider that since the election in November 2016 through January, stock returns, including dividends, increased every month. That was the longest such streak since 1928, when reliable records began to be kept, Mr. Detrick says.', 'And it’s not just that stocks moved up every month. They did so on a daily basis in the gentlest and steadiest of fashions. The average daily change in the benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index for all of 2017 was a mere 0.30 percent up or down. That is the lowest number — and the most stable market, based on that metric — since 1964.', 'No wonder the stock market seems so unsettling in 2018. Through Thursday, the average daily change, up or down, was 0.84 percent. That is a big increase. Yet going back to 1928, the average has been 0.75 percent. The current market, which has been depicted as wildly disruptive is, basically, just an average one, Mr. Detrick said.', 'Recall that in June 2016, after British voters said they wanted to leave the European Union, the stock markets fell into what seemed, at the time, to be a major panic. Less than a week after that vote, though, markets resumed their rise. Since then, the American market, measured by the S.&P. 500, was in positive territory every single day — until the cumulative declines of 2018 pulled the index into the red on Feb. 5 and into a correction on Feb. 8. On Friday, the S.&P. 500 closed at 2619.55.', 'Even if the current downturn doesn’t deepen, some sectors are already feeling severe pain. Traders who had bet that calm conditions would continue have lost fortunes. In just two days, the assets in two funds that trade in instruments linked to the VIX — officially, the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index — shrank from a combined total of $3 billion to about $150 million. There are few indications so far that trading losses in those instruments — or in the battered cryptocurrency markets — have damaged the overall financial system, but that is a worry in a serious downturn.', 'There have been major losses in the broader market, however. Through Thursday, the stocks in the S.&P. 500 had lost $5.2 trillion from the index’s peak on Jan. 26, according to Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.&P. Dow Jones Indices. That is a staggering amount, but even with those losses, the S.&P. 500 through Thursday had swollen by $3.55 trillion since the 2016 election.', 'How far will the current market decline go? I wish I knew. One troubling factor is the change in the leadership of the Federal Reserve, with Jerome H. Powell taking over as chairman on Feb. 3, succeeding Janet L. Yellen. In his confirmation hearings, Mr. Powell signaled a continuation of Fed policy, but the markets are testing him and it is not clear how he will respond.', 'The timing is awkward. The Fed has been tightening monetary policy while the federal government is loosening fiscal policy by cutting taxes, and then adding hundreds of billions of dollars in government spending in a last-minute budget deal on Friday. Furthermore, the Trump administration has been pushing for lighter regulation of financial markets. These shifts during a period of stress raise short-term risks for investors in stocks and bonds.', 'Bear markets in stocks — defined as downturns, from peak to trough, of at least 20 percent — rarely occur without a recession, and, at the moment, none is visible. That’s one reason for Mr. Detrick’s belief that the market is “probably getting fairly close to its bottom now.”', 'While that history is comforting, the 20 percent threshold for a bear market is arbitrary, and the link between recessions and the stock market is not ironclad. The bear market of 1987 occurred without a recession, for example. And who would really be surprised if the unusual political conditions in the United States today fostered unexpected patterns in the economy and stock market?', 'What is safe to say is that the market has entered a new, troubling phase. The current turmoil may turn out to be blissfully brief, but it makes sense to be ready for the worst.', 'Pretend you are the lead detective on a hit new show, “CSI: Terrible Stuff on the Internet.” In the first episode, you set up one of those crazy walls plastered with headlines and headshots, looking for hidden connections between everything awful that’s been happening online recently.', 'There’s a lot of dark stuff. In one corner, you have the Russian campaign to influence the 2016 presidential election with digital propaganda. In another, a rash of repugnant videos on YouTube, with children being mock-abused, cartoon characters bizarrely committing suicide on the kids’ channel and a popular vlogger recording a body hanging from a tree.', 'Then there’s tech “addiction,” the rising worry that adults and kids are getting hooked on smartphones and social networks despite our best efforts to resist the constant desire for a fix. And all over the internet, general fakery abounds — there are millions of fake followers on Twitter and Facebook, fake rehab centers being touted on Google and even fake review sites to sell you a mattress.', 'So who is the central villain in this story, the driving force behind much of the chaos and disrepute online?', 'This isn’t that hard. You don’t need a crazy wall to figure it out, because the force to blame has been quietly shaping the contours of life online since just about the beginning of life online: It’s the advertising business, stupid.', 'And if you want to fix much of what ails the internet right now, the ad business would be the perfect perp to handcuff and restrain — and perhaps even reform.', 'Ads are the lifeblood of the internet, the source of funding for just about everything you read, watch and hear online. The digital ad business is in many ways a miracle machine — it corrals and transforms latent attention into real money that pays for many truly useful inventions, from search to instant translation to video hosting to global mapping.', 'But the online ad machine is also a vast, opaque and dizzyingly complex contraption with underappreciated capacity for misuse — one that collects and constantly profiles data about our behavior, creates incentives to monetize our most private desires and frequently unleashes loopholes that the shadiest of people are only too happy to exploit.', 'And for all its power, the digital ad business has long been under-regulated and under-policed, both by the companies that run it and by the world’s governments. In the United States, the industry has been almost untouched by oversight, even though it forms the primary revenue stream of two of the planet’s most valuable companies, Google and Facebook.', '“In the early days of online media, the choice was essentially made — give it away for free, and advertising would produce the revenue,” said Randall Rothenberg, the chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade association that represents companies in the digital ad business. “A lot of the things we see now flow out from that decision.”', 'Mr. Rothenberg’s organization has long pushed for stronger standards for online advertising. In a speech last year, he implored the industry to “take civic responsibility for our effect on the world.” But he conceded the business was growing and changing too quickly for many to comprehend its excesses and externalities — let alone to fix them.', '“Technology has largely been outpacing the ability of individual companies to understand what is actually going on,” he said. “There’s really an unregulated stock market effect to the whole thing.”', 'Facebook, which reported its earnings on Wednesday, said its advertising principles hold that ads should “be safe and civil.” It defended the targeted ad business’s overall value, arguing that digital advertising connects people to products and services from small businesses and “creates jobs and helps the economy.”', 'The company also pointed to several steps it had taken recently. “We’ve tightened our ad policies, hired more ad reviewers, and created a new team to help detect and prevent abuses,” said Rob Goldman, Facebook’s vice president of advertising. “We’re also testing a tool that will bring more transparency to ads running on our platform. We know there is more work to do, but our goal is to keep people safe.”', 'A spokesman for Google, whose parent company, Alphabet, reports earnings on Thursday, said it was constantly policing its ad system, pointing out recent steps it has taken to address problems arising from the ad business, including several changes to YouTube.', 'The role of the ad business in much of what’s terrible online was highlighted in a recent report by two think tanks, New America and Harvard’s Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy.', '“The central problem of disinformation corrupting American political culture is not Russian spies or a particular social media platform,” two researchers, Dipayan Ghosh and Ben Scott, wrote in the report, titled “Digital Deceit.” “The central problem is that the entire industry is built to leverage sophisticated technology to aggregate user attention and sell advertising.”', 'The report chronicles just how efficient the online ad business has become at profiling, targeting, and persuading people. That’s good news for the companies that want to market to you — as the online ad machine gets better, marketing gets more efficient and effective, letting companies understand and influence consumer sentiment at a huge scale for little money.', 'But the same cheap and effective persuasion machine is also available to anyone with nefarious ends. The Internet Research Agency, the  troll group at the center of Russian efforts to influence American politics, spent $46,000 on Facebook ads before the 2016 election. That’s not very much — Hillary Clinton’s and Donald J. Trump’s campaigns spent tens of millions online. And yet the Russian campaign seems to have had enormous reach; Facebook has said the I.R.A.’s messages — both its ads and its unpaid posts — were seen by nearly 150 million Americans.', 'How the I.R.A. achieved this mass reach likely has something to do with the dynamics of the ad business, which lets advertisers run many experimental posts to hone their messages, and tends to reward posts that spark outrage and engagement — exactly the sort that the Russians were pushing.', '“You can’t have it both ways,” Mr. Scott said. “Either you have a brilliant technology that permits microtargeting to exactly the people you want to influence at exactly the right time with exactly the right message — or you’re only reaching a small number of people and therefore it couldn’t be influential.”', 'The consequences of the ad business don’t end at foreign propaganda. Consider all the nutty content recently found on YouTube Kids — not just the child-exploitation clips but also videos that seem to be created in whole or in part by algorithms that are mining the system for what’s popular, then creating endless variations.', 'Why would anyone do such a thing? For the ad money. One producer of videos that show antics including his children being scared by clowns told BuzzFeed that he had made more than $100,000 in two months from ads on his videos.', 'YouTube, which is owned by Google, has since pulled down thousands of such disturbing videos; the company said late last year that it was hiring numerous moderators to police the platform. It also tightened the rules for which producers can make money from its ad system.', 'Facebook, too, has made several recent fixes. The company has built a new tool — being tested in Canada and slated to be rolled out more widely this year — that lets people see the different ads being placed by political pages, a move meant to address I.R.A.-like influence campaigns. It has also fixed holes that allowed advertisers to target campaigns by race and religion. And it recently unveiled a new version of its News Feed that is meant to cut down on passively scrolling through posts — part of Mark Zuckerberg’s professed effort to improve the network even, he has said, at the cost of advertising revenue.', 'The tinkering continued on Tuesday, when Facebook also said it would ban ads promoting crypto currency schemes, some of which have fallen into scammy territory.', 'Yet these are all piecemeal efforts. They don’t address the underlying logic of the ad business, which produces endless incentives for gaming the system in ways that Google and Facebook discover often only after the fact. Mr. Rothenberg said this was how regulating advertising was likely to go — a lot of fixes resembling “Whac-a-Mole.”', 'Of course, there is the government. You could imagine some regulator imposing stricter standards for who has access to the online ad system, who makes money from it, how it uses private information and how transparent tech companies must be about it all. But that also seems unlikely; the Honest Ads Act, a proposal to regulate online political ads, has gone nowhere in Congress.', 'One final note: In 2015, Timothy D. Cook, Apple’s chief executive, warned about the dangers of the online ad business, especially its inherent threat to privacy. I wrote a column in which I took Mr. Cook to task — I argued that he had not acknowledged how ad-supported services improved his own company’s devices.', 'I stand by that view, but now I also regret dismissing his warning so cavalierly. Socially, politically and culturally, the online ad business is far more dangerous than I appreciated. Mr. Cook was right, and we should have listened to him.', 'A lot of the movies released in the late 1970s and early ’80s have spawned franchises, merchandising empires and what we are now invited to call “cinematic universes.” “Blade Runner,” Ridley Scott’s initially underrated 1982 adaptation of a novel by Philip K. Dick, accomplished something more unusual. It sent tendrils of influence — pictorial, conceptual and spiritual — into every corner of the culture and inspired a mystery cult.', 'Like other sacred texts, the film invites doctrinal arguments and esoteric inquiries. One of my fondest memories as a father and a film critic is of an impromptu post-screening seminar with two 11-year-olds about occult meanings and hidden clues in the director’s cut. How do we know (if indeed we do know) that Harrison Ford is a replicant? What is the significance of the origami unicorn? Are Sean Young’s shoulder pads for real?', '[Harrison Ford and Ryan Gosling Discuss “Blade Runner 2049”]', 'Alongside these basic interpretive questions, an academic subfield has blossomed, isolating “Blade Runner” as one of the original symptoms of postmodernism, a terminal and interminable disease of the mind. The film’s blend of curatorial nostalgia and dystopian prophecy captured a mood of self-conscious melancholy in its moment and set a tone of melancholy self-consciousness that has endured ever since. Maybe the real world never quite achieved the smoky neon-noir glow of Mr. Scott’s Los Angeles, but the map of our collective dream world was permanently redrawn.', 'The precise future “Blade Runner” projected is now less than two years away, and the next chapter, once something to be dreaded, seems, if anything, overdue. “Blade Runner 2049,” directed by Denis Villeneuve from a script by Hampton Fancher and Michael Green, tries both to honor the original and to slip free of its considerable shadow. That’s no easy feat, and it’s worth noting right away that, in narrow movie terms, Mr. Villeneuve, who also directed “Arrival,” mostly succeeds. From the opening aerial shots of a thoroughly denatured agricultural landscape and the lethal confrontation that follows, we know we are in the presence of a masterly visual tactician and a shrewd storyteller.', '[The “Blade Runner 2049” Look]', 'We are also in territory that is both familiar and disorienting. A brief note explains what has and hasn’t changed in the 30 years since the events in the first “Blade Runner.” Three-wheeled spinners still zoom through the California skies, and the building-size video advertisements have evolved into seductive, R-rated holograms. The titular profession — hunting down and “retiring” renegade members of the almost-human, genetically engineered android species known as replicants — is practiced with the same brutal doggedness as in the old days.', 'A new, more obedient type of replicant has been developed by a corporation led by a tech visionary played by Jared Leto. (His lieutenant Luv is played by Sylvia Hoeks, a far more vivid and persuasively terrifying presence than the mannered Mr. Leto.) One of these models is our hero, an L.A.P.D. employee known as K. (It’s an abbreviation of his serial number and also, maybe, an allusion to Franz Kafka’s avatar of modern alienation. That poor fellow’s full name was Josef K; when this K acquires a human pseudonym, it’s Joe.)', 'Speaking of avatars of alienation, K moves through his days with the unhurried shuffle and downcast baby blues of Ryan Gosling. This is impeccable casting. Mr. Gosling’s ability to elicit sympathy while seeming too distracted to want it — his knack for making boredom look like passion and vice versa — makes him a perfect warm-blooded robot for our time. He is also, in 2017, something close to what Harrison Ford was 35 years ago: the contemporary embodiment of Hollywood’s venerable ideal of masculine cool, a guy whose toughness will turn out to be the protective shell encasing a tender soul.', 'At first, of course, we must take that sensitivity on faith. K does his grim job thoroughly and without complaint, showing the weary, cynical patience of an old-time shamus. His commander (Robin Wright) is a human who believes that everything depends on policing the border between her kind and K’s. The whole point of “Blade Runner,” though, is that such boundaries are always blurred and porous. K comes home each night from work to the company of Joi (Ana de Armas), his devoted girlfriend, who happens to be a commercially produced artificial intelligence application.', 'We are prepared to acknowledge the pathos and the paradox of her condition, which is a version of K’s own. The idea that synthetic humans harbor feelings, desires and dreams — that they are mirrors of us, that we are replicas of them — has long been a staple of speculative cinema. “Blade Runner 2049” does not wander as deep into this ontological thicket as, say, Steven Spielberg’s “A.I.” or Spike Jonze’s “Her,” but like those movies it uses the conceit of the suffering cyborg as ethical and emotional ballast, a spur to the audience’s curiosity as well as our compassion. A political theme also asserts itself: These replicants are an enslaved labor force; their exploitation is the fuel on which this civilization runs.', 'There is a something to think about here, a fair amount to feel and even more to see. Mr. Villeneuve has conspired with the cinematographer, Roger A. Deakins; the production designer, Dennis Gassner; and the special effects team to create zones of strangeness that occasionally rise to the level of sublimity. The movies Mr. Villeneuve has directed — his recent English-language features include “Sicario,” “Prisoners” and “Arrival” — are full of violence and psychological intensity, but what distinguishes them from other high-end genre spectacles is an unnerving calm, as if he were exploring and trying to synthesize the human and mechanical sides of his own sensibility.', 'Movies are by their nature hybrids of technology and sentiment, machines for the delivery of human emotion. The first “Blade Runner” approached this as a philosophical problem and an artistic challenge. Mr. Scott used imagery borrowed from old Hollywood, German Expressionism and the nascent art of music video to create a dazzlingly artificial environment where authenticity was out of the question. Except, of course, that it was the question: How do we know what is real, ourselves included?', '“I know what’s real,” says the hero of that movie when — at long last! — he shows up in this one. K finds Deckard, the original Blade Runner (Mr. Ford, as if I needed to tell you), in an abandoned Las Vegas casino, surrounded by shimmering bottles of whiskey and primitive 3-D projections of Elvis and Frank Sinatra. Mr. Gosling, suddenly overmatched in the masculine cool department, acquits himself well enough, and Mr. Ford does exactly what you expect him to do.', 'Which is not something I’m going to explain, at least as far as it relates to the story. The studio has been unusually insistent in its pleas to critics not to reveal plot points. That’s fair enough, but it’s also evidence of how imaginatively impoverished big-budget movies have become. Like any great movie, Mr. Scott’s “Blade Runner” cannot be spoiled. It repays repeated viewing because its mysteries are too deep to be solved and don’t depend on the sequence of events. Mr. Villeneuve’s film, by contrast, is a carefully engineered narrative puzzle, and its power dissipates as the pieces snap into place. As sumptuous and surprising as it is from one scene to the next, it lacks the creative excess, the intriguing opacity and the haunting residue of its predecessor.', 'As such, “Blade Runner 2049” stands in relation to “Blade Runner” almost exactly as K stands in relation to Deckard before the two meet: as a more docile, less rebellious “improvement,” tweaked and retrofitted to meet consumer demand. And the customers are likely to be satisfied. But now and then — when K and Deckard are knocking around the old gambling palace; when K visits an enigmatic mind-technician played by Carla Juri — you get an inkling that something else might have been possible. Something freer, more romantic, more heroic, less determined by the corporate program.', 'Then again: Who knows at this point if that sense of loss, of lost possibility, is even real? It might be nothing more than an artificially implanted memory.', 'For the last four weeks, Joseph Percoco, a former top aide to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, has been sitting in a federal courtroom, flanked by an impressive lineup of white-shoe, top-dollar legal help, to fend off an array of corruption charges and keep him out of prison.', 'But who exactly is paying for that team — a legal bill that experts say could easily run in the hundreds of thousands of dollars — is not clear. And Mr. Percoco, a man who was so strapped a few years ago that prosecutors say he was practically begging for bribes, isn’t saying, either.', '“Why is that your business?” Mr. Percoco responded when asked as he left the courtroom one day last week. “You should talk to my lawyer about it.”', 'His lead lawyer, Barry A. Bohrer, a partner and the co-chairman of the white-collar defense practice of his firm, Schulte Roth & Zabel, declined to comment. Two other lawyers from the firm have assisted Mr. Bohrer at Mr. Percoco’s side most days in court, including a former assistant United States attorney.', 'Because Mr. Percoco left the state government in 2016 and is now a private citizen, someone else can legally pay his bills; the firm could also be donating its services.', 'William G. Ross, a law professor at Samford University who is an expert on legal fees, said partners at top white-collar defense firms in New York can charge $1,000 or more per hour. Without speculating about the Percoco case in particular, he said that total fees in a complex defense white-collar criminal prosecution “could easily exceed a million dollars.”', 'The question of who is picking up Mr. Percoco’s legal tab is of particular interest because of his close relationship with Mr. Cuomo, whose name has surfaced repeatedly in the trial. In the past, Mr. Cuomo has likened Mr. Percoco to a brother. They served together for decades, dating to when Mr. Cuomo headed the federal housing department. Mr. Percoco managed Mr. Cuomo’s campaigns in his 2010 and 2014 governor’s races and was his executive deputy secretary in Albany.', 'A spokesman for Mr. Cuomo, Richard Azzopardi, said the governor was unaware of who, if anyone, was paying Mr. Percoco’s legal bills, and said Mr. Cuomo had not had any conversations or made any requests to arrange for someone to help cover those costs.', 'Mr. Percoco is accused of taking at least $315,000 in bribes from his co-defendants in return for performing official acts on their companies’ behalf. The trial resumes on Tuesday.', 'Schulte, Roth & Zabel’s representation of Mr. Percoco dates to the federal investigation into the Cuomo administration’s dissolving of the Moreland Commission. In 2016, Mr. Cuomo’s campaign committee paid $80,000 to Schulte, Roth & Zabel for what they said at the time was Mr. Percoco’s legal bills. The campaign has not paid the firm since then, records show.', 'Mr. Percoco left Mr. Cuomo’s office in January 2016 to join Madison Square Garden as a vice president. He left the company in “the spring of 2017,” the Garden said, which was several months after he was indicted in September 2016.', 'The chief executive of Madison Square Garden, James Dolan, is a major Cuomo donor, with more than $500,000 steered to the governor’s campaigns through various subsidiaries of a company he previously ran, Cablevision. The Madison Square Garden Company said in a statement about Mr. Percoco that “neither Jim Dolan nor MSG are funding his trial.”', 'It is also possible that Mr. Bohrer and his colleagues have donated their services, but Mr. Ross, the expert on legal fees, said that generally “it would be unusual for a large firm to provide pro bono services for a white-collar defendant in a protracted case requiring a substantial investment of law firm resources.”']