['For giving somebody the shivers, brushes are tools of choice. A January performance of Whisperlodge begins in a dimly lit Brooklyn living room, where a man and a woman dressed in white run fat makeup brushes in slow circles over another woman’s bare back. Spacey synthesizer chords drone from speakers at the front of the room while the four audience members watch from armchairs or a cream-colored sofa.', 'Performers then lead participants individually into private rooms for various one-on-one sensory experiences during the 90-minute show. Scenes include sitting at a table while someone crinkles paper in your ears, visiting a “doctor’s office,” having your face stroked with makeup brushes, and a hair-brushing encounter.', 'Whisperlodge is an unusual mixture of theater and therapy. Every few months, usually in a rented or borrowed apartment, audience members show up and pay $90 to $120 to experience scenes presented by a semiregular cast of performers and designed to elicit autonomous sensory meridian response, more commonly known as A.S.M.R., the suddenly popular phenomenon in which gentle sounds or touch make some people feel relaxing tingles at the back of the skull.', 'A.S.M.R. has a huge following online, where hundreds of thousands of fans watch videos of people performing soothing activities to help them sleep or relax or to ease anxiety. Whisperlodge, founded by Melinda Lauw, 25, an artist, and Andrew Hoepfner, 35, who creates immersive theater, is one of the first in-person A.S.M.R experiences in the world, and it’s starting to draw crowds, one intimate audience at a time. The group says it has sold out all 16 runs of performances since launching in Brooklyn in 2016, including six events in California and a few “whispers on demand” sessions that are more spa treatment than performance, where people pay $150 and up for one-on-one customized relaxation sessions. Its creators hope to tour Whisperlodge internationally.', 'Once the term A.S.M.R. gained currency (it was coined in a 2010 online forum), fans started YouTube channels dedicated to triggering the sensation. People report feeling A.S.M.R. from everything from scalp massages — or watching other people get them — to the sound of fingernails tapping on wood. Videos typically feature a woman speaking close to a camera and barely above a whisper, often pretending to be a care provider like a makeup artist or physician. Tapping, scratching and crinkling sounds abound. Today, the top YouTube channels draw over a million subscribers.', 'The Shenandoah University physiologist Craig Richard first heard the term A.S.M.R. in 2013 on a podcast. He developed an online survey for people who experience the feeling and introduced the website ASMR University to compile research on the subject. He compares the behavior demonstrated in A.S.M.R. videos to that of a parent comforting an infant: a soft voice, focused attention and a caring gaze.', 'Video as a medium for A.S.M.R. may appeal to anxiety sufferers because the viewer is in full control. “The stranger in a video — they can’t harm you,” Dr. Richard said by phone. In his survey however, participants’ favorite stimulus is touch, something available only in person. For them, there’s Whisperlodge.', '“Today I’d like to share this hairbrush with you,” Ms. Lauw said during the last of 12 January shows. Welcoming each audience member to a room bathed in soft, gold light, she perched on the edge of the bed and stroked the brush’s rubber bristles and wooden handle. Participants leave her room with hair thoroughly detangled and, perhaps, in a state of zombielike relaxation.', 'For those who don’t get “tingles,” watching someone caress the handle of a hairbrush would seem indisputably bizarre. Yet A.S.M.R. devotees aren’t hallucinating.', '“It’s absolutely a real thing,” said Stephen Smith, a psychologist at the University of Winnipeg who has used fMRI machines to scan the brains of people who experience the sensation. He found neural networks firing differently in people who feel A.S.M.R. than in the general population. “It seems to be affecting so many different people, and for the most part it’s affecting them in a positive way.”', 'In YouTube comments, someone will occasionally ask whether A.S.M.R. videos are meant to be pornographic. After all, some fans refer to the feeling as a “brain orgasm,” and in videos beautiful women whisper softly to the camera. While porn may ultimately be in the eye of the beholder, viewers who use the videos for relaxation are adamant: their goal is the opposite of arousal. Dr. Richard finds the “orgasm” descriptor misleading. “The pleasure of A.S.M.R. is more like the warm comfort of sitting on a couch with a best friend, close family member or romantic partner,” he said by email. “You feel relaxed, carefree and safe.”', '“Many of the videos seem intimate, although the intimacy appears to be more socially voyeuristic rather than sexually voyeuristic in nature,” Dr. Smith said. However, he added, if you dig into the online subculture of A.S.M.R., you can find the occasional not-safe-for-work video, which suggests there is a subset of the community that uses A.S.M.R. for sexual stimulation.', 'While there haven’t been studies to test the benefits of A.S.M.R., and performers aren’t licensed to administer tingles, Dr. Smith says the experience of it shares characteristics, like intense focus and relaxation, with meditation. A therapeutic application is not out of the question. “If I can understand more about how these people can experience positive emotions and relaxation, it provides us with more opportunities to design programs that will help people increase their well-being,” he said.', 'Perhaps future research will also reveal what makes a fake doctor’s visit soothing to some.', 'Chia Lynn Kwa, 26, a friend of Ms. Lauw’s and a graphic designer by day, played the physician in January’s Whisperlodge, where she stroked guests’ ears with a Q-tip and pretended to scan their body, using a buzzing electric toothbrush like a T.S.A. wand. She said audience members seemed at ease taking direction from an authority figure, even a pretend one.', '“I think part of it is that a lot of people think it’s kind of comforting to just be told what to do,” Ms. Kwa said.', 'Mark Harris, 46, who was in the audience and works for an interactive design studio in Manhattan, feels A.S.M.R. from touch, not through videos, so an in-person experience was ideal for him. Referring to the Q-tip in the doctor’s scene, he said, “Those types of touch trigger it very powerfully.”', 'Also at the performance was Mr. Harris’s wife, Nicole Arendt, 41, a New York City public-school teacher. Ms. Arendt does not feel A.S.M.R. herself. “But I am interested in heightened senses,” she said, adding that the hair-brushing evoked nostalgic memories of her mother and sister.', 'Not all audience members have enjoyed the show. Ms. Lauw says some people have no idea what’s going on. “You can tell from their reactions that they’re like, ‘Ooh! This is weird,’” she said. Sometimes people don’t want to be touched at all. In these cases, cast members perform the actions on themselves. (Performers ask for consent before touching people.)', 'In one scene, Pamela Martinez, 36, a composer who joined Whisperlodge after organizing several sound-bath meditation sessions with Mr. Hoepfner, presents a tray of makeup brushes and invites a guest to choose one she will use to stroke their face. She acknowledged it was weird, at first, to get so close to a stranger. “Not everybody’s willing and able to access that part of themselves,” Ms. Martinez said. “But a lot of people are just waiting for the invitation.”', 'Of course, it’s a faux intimacy forged at Whisperlodge, only slightly more real than watching someone pretend to care for you on YouTube. Dr. Smith said that A.S.M.R., in spite of the relaxation it seems to provide its fans, could be part a larger pattern of people isolating themselves in the digital age. “There’s so much online that allows you to not actually interact with other human beings yet still feel close — artificially close — to other people. A.S.M.R. does that,” he said.', 'In this vein, Dr. Richard compares A.S.M.R. to vitamins: It shouldn’t be the only source of human closeness, although it could be a healthy supplement to real intimacy.', 'Emma Smith, 39, who runs WhispersRed, an A.S.M.R. YouTube account with more than 400,000 subscribers, has led live A.S.M.R. meditations in Britain and in San Francisco as a partnership with Whisperlodge. To her, meeting other A.S.M.R. fans in person is the best possible outcome of the online phenomenon. “You’ve found something you enjoy and helps you sleep, but you’ve also found a community of people who are just like you,” she said via Skype. “Connect with those people, realize you’re not alone. The internet is in danger of stopping us from being human. We need to use it to be more human, not the other way around.”', 'Early last year, a private equity billionaire started paying regular visits to the White House.', 'Joshua Harris, a founder of Apollo Global Management, was advising Trump administration officials on infrastructure policy. During that period, he met on multiple occasions with Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser, said three people familiar with the meetings. Among other things, the two men discussed a possible White House job for Mr. Harris.', 'The job never materialized, but in November, Apollo lent $184 million to Mr. Kushner’s family real estate firm, Kushner Companies. The loan was to refinance the mortgage on a Chicago skyscraper.', 'Even by the standards of Apollo, one of the world’s largest private equity firms, the previously unreported transaction with the Kushners was a big deal: It was triple the size of the average property loan made by Apollo’s real estate lending arm, securities filings show.', 'It was one of the largest loans Kushner Companies received last year. An even larger loan came from Citigroup, which lent the firm and one of its partners $325 million to help finance a group of office buildings in Brooklyn.', 'That loan was made in the spring of 2017, shortly after Mr. Kushner met in the White House with Citigroup’s chief executive, Michael L. Corbat, according to people briefed on the meeting. The two men talked about financial and trade policy and did not discuss Mr. Kushner’s family business, one person said.', 'There is little precedent for a top White House official meeting with executives of companies as they contemplate sizable loans to his business, say government ethics experts.', '“This is exactly why senior government officials, for as long back as I have any experience, don’t maintain any active outside business interests,” said Don Fox, the former acting director of the Office of Government Ethics during the Obama administration and, before that, a lawyer for the Air Force and Navy during Republican and Democratic administrations. “The appearance of conflicts of interest is simply too great.”', 'The White House referred questions to Mr. Kushner’s lawyer, Abbe Lowell, who did not dispute that the meetings between Mr. Kushner and the executives took place.', 'Peter Mirijanian, a spokesman for Mr. Lowell, said in a statement that Mr. Kushner “has met with hundreds of business people.” He said that Mr. Kushner “has taken no part of any business, loans or projects with or for” Kushner Companies since joining the White House and that he has followed ethics advice.', 'Christine Taylor, a spokeswoman for Kushner Companies, said Mr. Kushner’s White House role had not affected the company’s relationships with financial institutions. “Stories like these attempt to make insinuating connections that do not exist to disparage the financial institutions and companies involved,” she said.', 'An Apollo spokesman, Charles V. Zehren, said Mr. Harris was not involved in the decision to loan money to Kushner Companies. He said the loan “went through the firm’s standard approval process.”', 'A Citigroup spokeswoman, Danielle Romero-Apsilos, said Kushner Companies had been a bank client since before the election and that the relationship had no connection to Mr. Kushner’s White House role. She said Citigroup negotiated the 2017 loan with Kushner Companies’ business partner, a real estate developer.', 'Mr. Kushner’s tenure in the White House has been dogged by questions about conflicts of interest between his government work and his family business, in which he remains heavily invested. Mr. Kushner steers American policy in the Middle East, for example, but his family company continues to do deals with Israeli investors.', 'This blurring of lines is now a potential liability for Mr. Kushner, who recently lost his top-secret security clearance amid worries from some United States officials that foreign governments might try to gain influence with the White House by doing business with Mr. Kushner.', 'Investigators working for Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel looking into Russian interference in the 2016 election, have asked questions about Mr. Kushner’s interactions with potential investors from overseas, according to a person familiar with the matter. Mr. Kushner’s firm has sought investments from the Chinese insurer Anbang and from the former prime minister of Qatar.', 'Mr. Mirijanian, the spokesman for Mr. Kushner’s lawyer, said that Mr. Mueller had not sought from the Kushner Companies or Mr. Kushner “any information or document concerning any business dealing either has had.”', 'Mr. Kushner resigned as chief executive of Kushner Companies when he joined the White House last January, and he sold a small portion of his stake in the company to a trust controlled by his mother.', 'But he retained the vast majority of his interest in Kushner Companies. His real estate holdings and other investments are worth as much as $761 million, according to government ethics filings. They are likely worth much more, because that estimate has his firm’s debt subtracted from the value of his holdings. The company has done at least $7 billion of deals in the past decade.', 'Public filings show that Mr. Kushner still owns part of the company that received the Apollo loan. The loan was used to refinance a Chicago skyscraper that is the Midwest headquarters for AT&T. Mr. Kushner also still holds a stake in the entity that owns the Brooklyn buildings and received the loan from Citigroup.', 'Federal ethics regulations restrict government employees from participating in some matters that involve companies with which the official is seeking “a business, contractual or other financial relationship that involves other than a routine consumer transaction.”', 'Mr. Fox, the ethics expert, said Mr. Kushner risked violating the regulations in his meetings with Citigroup and Apollo executives.', '“Why does Jared have to take the meeting?” he asked. “Is there not somebody else who doesn’t have these financial entanglements who can brainstorm freely with these folks?”', 'The Trump administration no longer publicly discloses logs of visitors to the White House. In February, the White House settled litigation with Public Citizen, a nonprofit organization, and agreed to disclose some of that information.', 'Mr. Kushner has also met at the White House with Stephen A. Schwarzman, chief executive of the private equity firm Blackstone, which in the past has lent money to Kushner Companies for several projects, though all before the election. Until August, Mr. Schwarzman was the head of a White House business advisory council.', '“Blackstone has not done any business with Kushner Companies since the election, nor has Steve ever discussed private business matters with Mr. Kushner,” said a Blackstone spokeswoman.', 'All of the executives who met with Mr. Kushner have lots to gain or lose in Washington.', 'Apollo has sought ways to benefit from the White House’s possible infrastructure plan. And its executives, including Mr. Harris, had tens of millions of dollars personally at stake in the tax overhaul that was making its way through Washington last year.', 'Citigroup, one of the country’s largest banks, is heavily regulated by federal agencies and, like other financial companies, is trying to get the government to relax its oversight of the industry.', 'Mr. Kushner has reported owning hundreds of partnerships, limited liability companies and other entities, but he is not required to disclose the lifeblood of any real estate firm’s business: its lenders and outside investors.', 'Some of the lenders can be pieced together through public records. The Apollo loan is disclosed in Chicago mortgage filings, which list the lender as “ACREFI Holdings J-I, LLC.” That vehicle is owned by Apollo’s real estate investment trust, securities filings show.', 'The loans’ interest rates and other key provisions are not disclosed.', 'Kushner Companies bought the Chicago building in 2007.', 'Apollo, best known for investing in companies such as Caesars Entertainment and Norwegian Cruise Lines, was founded by Mr. Harris, Marc Rowan and its current chief executive, Leon Black. Mr. Black and Mr. Kushner sat next to each other at the 2016 US Open, a few months before the presidential election.', 'Mr. Harris, a co-owner of the Philadelphia 76ers and the New Jersey Devils, is Apollo’s senior managing director. He also is an adviser to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.', 'Early last year, the White House enlisted Mr. Harris and other executives to advise the administration on infrastructure policy. Over a period of months, Mr. Harris met regularly with Mr. Kushner and other White House officials.', 'Apollo made the loan to Kushner Companies on Nov. 1, 2017, according to public records.', 'Apollo does not make real estate loans directly. Instead, it makes them through a so-called real estate investment trust, called Apollo Commercial Real Estate Finance. The trust is a publicly traded company with its own set of shareholders. It is managed by Apollo, which charges the trust management fees, and has no employees of its own.', 'One of the largest investors in Apollo’s real estate trust is the Qatari government’s investment fund, the Qatar Investment Authority.', 'Mr. Kushner’s firm previously sought a $500 million investment from the former head of that Qatari fund for its headquarters at 666 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan. That investment never materialized.', 'Shortly after Kushner Companies received the loan from Apollo, the private equity firm emerged as a beneficiary of the tax cut package that the White House championed. Mr. Trump backed down from his earlier pledge to close a loophole that permits private equity managers to pay taxes on the bulk of their income at rates that are roughly half of ordinary income tax rates. The tax law left the loophole largely intact.', 'THE GOLDEN PASSPORT Harvard Business School, the Limits of Capitalism, and the Moral Failure of the MBA Elite By Duff McDonald 657 pp. Harper Business/ HarperCollins Publishers. $35.', 'When the Harvard Business School was founded in 1908, the first entirely graduate-level professional business program in the country was described by the future Harvard president Abbott Lawrence Lowell as a “great” but “delicate experiment.” Today the school is indisputably great, but hardly delicate. It accepted just 12 percent of nearly 10,000 M.B.A. applicants in 2016. Eighty-nine percent of those who were accepted attended, which means that Harvard remains the overwhelming first choice among graduate schools of business, despite occasional rankings that put Stanford, Yale or Northwestern ahead of it. There are more than 76,000 living Harvard M.B.A. alumni, 33 percent of whom live outside the United States, forming what is very likely the most potent network of any graduate school.', 'The marriage of Harvard’s prestige and intellectual pedigree to overtly moneymaking pursuits has yielded an institution that not only teaches the fundamentals of business education but also provides its soon-to-be-wealthy graduates with “unrivaled opportunity,” and has become a “money machine unto itself,” as Duff McDonald puts it in his sweeping survey of the school’s history and influence.', 'But how and why that might be the case isn’t really what interests McDonald, the author of previous books about McKinsey, the consulting firm, and JPMorgan’s chief executive, Jamie Dimon. In “The Golden Passport,” he’s determined to call the Harvard Business School to account, citing its founding doctrine, which was to develop “a heightened sense of responsibility among businessmen” (and eventually women) who “will handle their current business problems in socially constructive ways.” In that regard, McDonald is scathing in his critique: Harvard Business School has not only “proven an enormous failure,” but its very success has made it positively “dangerous.”', 'He drives home the point in chapter after chapter, picking up steam in more recent decades: Harvard, he maintains, provided the ideological underpinnings for the junk-bond-induced takeover mania and resulting scandals of the 1980s; the corporate scandals of the 2000s; the egregious increase in the pay gap between chief executives and ordinary employees; the real estate mortgage bubble and ensuing financial crisis; even the election of Donald Trump. In McDonald’s view, the school has contributed to pretty much every bad thing that has happened in American business and the economy in the last century. In the wake of whatever scandal or financial collapse or recession to which it has contributed, it wipes its hands, distances itself and still has the nerve to put forth its experts as the solution to problems.', 'In virtually every instance, McDonald contends, Harvard has obsessively pursued money, sending a disproportionate number of its graduates to consulting firms beginning in the 1950s (it was all but synonymous with McKinsey), to Wall Street in the 1980s and to entrepreneurial start-ups once initial public offerings became the rage in the 1990s — and provided intellectual justifications for its actions. Much of that wealth found its way back to the school itself. Its professors earn enormous sums as consultants to businesses populated by their former students, who also give generously to their alma mater: Its endowment stood at $3.3 billion by 2015, a dedicated portion of the university’s enormous $32.7 billion.', 'McDonald’s criticism of Michael Jensen, now an emeritus professor, is especially withering. As he sees it, Jensen bears major responsibility for the rapacious hostile takeovers and the obsession with stock prices and short-term results that led to the Enron and WorldCom scandals, as well as for the emergence of outlandishly high chief executive pay.', 'Jensen came to the business school in 1984, just as the junk-bond-fueled takeover boom was gaining steam, and he became a full-time faculty member in 1989. Undeniably one of the most influential business theorists of modern times, he advocated an “agency” theory of management in which management’s sole duty was to maximize shareholder value. This upended the long-held “stakeholder” model, in which management was seen as having broader obligations to a corporation’s workers, customers and communities.', 'Jensen’s theories had simplicity and consistency: If all that matters is shareholder value, then hostile takeovers, leveraged buyouts and other forms of financial engineering are fine as long as they boost share prices, no matter that battalions of workers have to be fired and community relations damaged. Jensen also championed share-based executive compensation on the grounds that no matter how much executives were paid, shareholders benefited. This was an idea that swept corporate America. McDonald notes that in 1992, the C.E.O.s of Fortune 500 firms made an average of $2.7 million a year. By 2000, the average was $14 million.', 'Just about every premise of the “agency” model, McDonald says, has now been punctured, but only long after the damage has been done. An obsession with stock prices and short-term results was the motive for many of the accounting scandals of the 2000s, which were designed to prop up share prices, and as a result, high executive pay. Even Jensen eventually had to concede that the liberal use of stock options as executive compensation had become “managerial heroin.”', 'Jensen is just one of many examples of the insidious relationship between Harvard Business School theory and real-world calamities in ”The Golden Passport,” but it seems worth asking: Is McDonald’s broadside fair? Apart from a few brief quotations from his published work, we don’t hear from Jensen himself, or any of the other still-living culprits McDonald identifies. It’s hard to fault McDonald, who reports that Harvard Business School “shut me out entirely” when he sought cooperation, and pretty much shut down everyone who works there. That seems a shame. McDonald insists he isn’t “anti-business-school” (he attended Wharton), nor is he “anti-wealth.” Nonetheless, he says he found the rejection “liberating.”', 'But I missed a greater sense of balance. It doesn’t seem fair, to take one major example, to blame Harvard for the recent financial crisis. While their actions remain a subject of spirited debate, the H.B.S. graduates assembled by McDonald — starting with former President George W. Bush, former Treasury Secretary Hank Paulson and former S.E.C. Chairman Christopher Cox — are credited by many with mitigating the damage and saving the country from an even worse catastrophe. To take just one counterexample, the young former Goldman Sachs investment banker Fabrice Tourre, one of the few Wall Street figures actually found guilty of civil fraud for his role in the kind of complex mortgage deals that contributed to the crisis, is a graduate of France’s École Centrale and Stanford University. (France’s prestigious “Grandes Écoles” — not H.B.S. — appear to have generated a disproportionate number of the financial engineers who unwittingly helped cause the crisis.) Given the large number of Harvard Business grads in high-ranking executive positions, it’s inevitable that many would be ensnared in what turned into a global catastrophe. It’s a shame that some of them didn’t see the looming disaster and sound an alarm. But hardly anyone did, including graduates of every other business school.', 'McDonald bookends his long and impressively researched account with a portrait of Casey Gerald, an African-American who delivered a 2014 Class Day speech that’s been viewed online over 200,000 times, and is featured on the school’s “Making a Difference” website. Gerald turned his back on a lucrative career in private equity to co-found a public interest organization to connect M.B.A. graduates with mission-driven businesses. This may suggest to some that it is hard to generalize about Harvard’s students, though McDonald isn’t stopped: He sees Gerald as one of a handful of “outliers,” the exception that proves the rule that most graduates are morally detached, single-minded fortune seekers.', 'I suspect McDonald won’t be invited to campus anytime soon, but perhaps he should be: Agree with him or not, he deserves credit for raising questions that every business school needs to be asking. It’s hard to quarrel with his concluding plea: “H.B.S. should — and can — play a part in helping more people who think about business rediscover a purpose other than profit.” As he puts it: “It needs to graduate more people who are motivated to solve problems, and fewer people who create them.”', 'Directors of an influential Latino business organization met on Sunday to discuss allegations that their chief executive had engaged in sexual harassment and financial impropriety, according to people close to the board.', 'At the meeting, the board of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, a nonprofit group that promotes the interests of Latino businesses, reviewed allegations that its chief executive, Javier Palomarez, sexually harassed an employee and improperly padded his pay, said two people close to the board who were not authorized to speak publicly. The board said on Friday that it had hired an outside law firm to investigate “various allegations,” but did not offer details or specify who was the subject of the claims.', 'Mr. Palomarez has disputed the accusations.', '“I categorically deny these deeply troubling allegations, and I will fully cooperate with any investigation into them,” he said in a statement issued late Friday.', 'By Sunday evening, it was not clear whether the meeting had ended or what the outcome might be.', 'Mr. Palomarez said in his statement that the financial allegations were part of a “retaliatory effort” by a different woman, a former superior, with whom he said he had an intimate relationship. In court papers filed in Texas, he identified that woman as Nina Vaca, a former chairwoman of the chamber who runs the Pinnacle Group, a technology services firm based in Dallas, and had remained on the board of both the chamber and its charitable arm. (The Texas court filing, made on behalf of Mr. Palomarez, was a formal request to interview Ms. Vaca in anticipation of a lawsuit against her.)', 'Ms. Vaca declined to comment. Her allegations of financial impropriety led foundation directors to reduce Mr. Palomarez’s responsibilities, according to foundation board minutes, and the chamber’s directors to consider forcing his resignation last fall, according to chamber board minutes and to people close to the board.', 'Gissel Gazek Nicholas, Mr. Palomarez’s former chief of staff, has accused him of sexual harassment. Ms. Nicholas, who was fired last fall, made the accusations in a letter that her lawyer wrote to the chamber’s board and in an interview with The Times. The letter said that Mr. Palomarez sexually assaulted her, created a hostile work environment and wrongfully terminated her from her chief of staff role.', 'The Hispanic Chamber of Commerce calls itself the voice of 4.4 million Hispanic-owned businesses.', 'Mr. Palomarez, who was named chief executive eight years ago, has raised the organization’s profile. He has advocated Latino business interests on television and in op-ed articles, secured access to influential figures in the White House and on Capitol Hill and strengthened the chamber’s relationships with companies like Coca-Cola and Goldman Sachs. In September, he resigned from President Trump’s National Diversity Coalition to publicly protest Mr. Trump’s decision to end the Barack Obama-era program that shields young undocumented immigrants from deportation, known officially as the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, program.', 'Last year, shortly before Mr. Palomarez’s employment contract was due to expire, Ms. Vaca reviewed his pay and performance from prior years, according to people close to the board and to the Texas court filings. She discovered what she described to fellow directors as a pattern of inappropriate annual raises and other payouts, according to people close to the board, including Maria Cardona, who was a director at the time. Ms. Vaca estimated that Mr. Palomarez was paid hundreds of thousands of dollars more than he was entitled to under his contract, according to board minutes.', 'Six members of the board’s executive committee voted on Oct. 31 to give Mr. Palomarez a chance to resign within a week and repay the chamber a negotiated amount of money. At that point, the organization estimated the overpayment at $500,000 to $600,000, according to the board minutes.', '“What he did was financially inappropriate at best, and if he had done this at any other organization, he would have been fired on the spot,” said Ms. Cardona, who voted to oust Mr. Palomarez.', 'About a month later, in early December, Ms. Cardona and two other female directors who wanted Mr. Palomarez to resign were forced off the board because they hadn’t paid their annual board dues on time, according to Ms. Cardona.', 'On Dec. 6, the board again considered the allegations of overpayment, but rejected them, according to the Texas filing. A spokeswoman retained by the organization’s board had no immediate comment on the matter.', 'Ms. Nicholas’s harassment allegation stemmed from an incident that she says occurred in Chicago in 2013. Mr. Palomarez was there for an event with the city’s mayor, and he asked Ms. Nicholas and other employees to join him in his hotel suite for last-minute preparations, according to Ms. Nicholas and two other people who were there. Late that night, as the group was leaving his suite, Mr. Palomarez asked Ms. Nicholas to stay behind, they said.', 'Ms. Nicholas said he asked her to sit down with him and discuss the next day’s event.', '“He grabbed my hand gently, and is rubbing the back of my hand, and says that he’s incredibly attracted to me, and wondered what it would be like to be with me,” Ms. Nicholas said in an interview. “He asked if I had ever thought about being with him.”', 'She said she rebuffed Mr. Palomarez, while trying to avoid an awkward situation.', '“I said, ‘Oh, Jav, we shouldn’t go there,’” Ms. Nicholas said. On her way out the door, she said he pulled her toward him and tried to kiss her before she broke away.', 'Her account was corroborated by an email she sent to a friend hours after the incident, as well as a second friend whom she told about the incident at the time.', 'Mr. Palomarez denies that the incident took place. He said in the Texas court filing that Ms. Vaca, a chamber board member at the time that Ms. Nicholas’s allegations surfaced, put Ms. Nicholas up to fabricating a sexual harassment claim in exchange for a promise that Ms. Nicholas could replace Mr. Palomarez as the chamber’s chief executive.', 'Ms. Nicholas said that is false and that she was never interested in becoming the chamber’s chief executive.', 'Mr. Palomarez has faced harassment allegations before. In 1996, when he worked at Allstate Insurance, he was sued by a subordinate, Yolanda Hernandez, who accused him of making suggestive comments, kissing her and placing his hand on her thigh at an out-of-town business gathering. Ms. Hernandez eventually became fearful of stalking and “other provocative acts” and left the company shortly afterward, according to the lawsuit.', 'The case was later settled, according to a lawyer for Ms. Hernandez. She is now a marketer in the Chicago area. Her lawyer said the settlement included a confidentiality agreement.', 'Asked about the Allstate suit, Mr. Palomarez’s lawyer, Tony Buzbee, said, “Javier didn’t harass anyone.”', 'Uber, which for years spread across the globe with command-and-conquer rapaciousness, is pulling back from another major ride-hailing market.', 'The company said on Sunday that it would sell its Southeast Asia ride and food-delivery businesses to Grab, a rival based in Singapore, in the latest move to shore up its finances and refocus its business ahead of a planned public listing.', 'Uber will get a 27.5 percent stake in Grab in exchange. Uber’s chief executive, Dara Khosrowshahi, will join Grab’s board. Further financial terms were not disclosed.', 'The détente in Southeast Asia, which is similar to deals Uber has made in China and Russia in recent years, comes at a time of larger changes at the company, based in San Francisco.', 'SoftBank, the Japanese conglomerate that recently took a big stake in Uber, has also backed a host of its competitors, including Grab in Southeast Asia, Ola in India and Didi Chuxing, which bought Uber’s China business in 2016. That means SoftBank would rather these companies did not spend too much money competing against one another.', 'Uber’s exit from Southeast Asia, a region of more than 600 million people, also reflects the new direction the company is taking under Mr. Khosrowshahi, who replaced Travis Kalanick as chief executive last year.', 'Mr. Khosrowshahi has forsworn his predecessor’s infamously pugnacious way of doing business. And with a mandate to take Uber public, he has set out to repair relations with regulators, fix a troubled workplace culture and calm Wall Street about the company’s financial prospects. Uber said it lost $1.1 billion in the last three months of 2017, somewhat less than it lost in the preceding quarter.', '“It is fair to ask whether consolidation is now the strategy of the day,” Mr. Khosrowshahi wrote in an email to staff. “The answer is no.”', 'He continued: “One of the potential dangers of our global strategy is that we take on too many battles across too many fronts and with too many competitors. This transaction now puts us in a position to compete with real focus and weight in the core markets where we operate.”', 'Grab was introduced in 2012 and now operates in eight Southeast Asian countries: Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. And it has put up a tough fight.', 'With passengers in nearly 200 cities across the region, the company is aiming to be more than just a transportation provider. It wants its digital wallet, GrabPay, to replace cash as a way to pay for things at offline shops and restaurants. And in a region where many people lack credit histories or even bank accounts, Grab is undertaking a venture to make loans to consumers and small businesses. Data collected through Grab’s app, on users’ movements and transactions, is used to assess their creditworthiness.', 'Grab also offers a wide variety of ways for people to get around. In Singapore, you can hop on a GrabShuttle that, like a public bus, will take you between points along a fixed route. In jam-packed Jakarta, you can use Grab’s app to hail a nearby motorbike taxi right off the street, forgoing the usual process of prebooking and waiting for the driver to arrive at your location.', 'The company is generally regarded as the market leader in Southeast Asia. But in Indonesia, the region’s most populous country, it  is taking on Go-Jek, a local rival whose apps offer services, such as massages on demand and motorbike parcel deliveries, that go beyond just rides. Go-Jek’s investors include Google and Tencent, the Chinese internet conglomerate.', 'In an interview, Ming Maa, Grab’s president, said that the deal with Uber would help Grab move closer to profitability, although he declined to give specifics. One key benefit of combining with Uber, Mr. Maa said, is that it immediately expands Grab’s food-delivery operations.', '“That has massive, massive benefits to our consumer base,” he said, “but is also a key driver for our mobile payments business.”', 'For Uber, ceding Southeast Asia still leaves it with plenty of challengers elsewhere in the world. Didi Chuxing, based in Beijing, invested alongside SoftBank in Grab last year. It recently raised money from SoftBank and other investors at a valuation of $56 billion — higher than the $48 billion at which Uber was valued as part of last year’s stake sale to SoftBank.', 'Now, Didi wants to go global. The company, whose full name is pronounced “dee-dee choo-SHING,” recently took control of 99, an Uber rival in Brazil, and is recruiting on LinkedIn ahead of a planned opening in Mexico.', 'Didi is also aiming to expand soon into Japan — a market in which Uber, too, will make a big push this year, according to Mr. Khosrowshahi. SoftBank, despite being an investor in both Uber and Didi, announced recently that it would partner with Didi in Japan.', 'SAN FRANCISCO — The contemporary internet was built on a bargain: Show us who you really are and the digital world will be free to search or share.', 'People detailed their interests and obsessions on Facebook and Google, generating a river of data that could be collected and harnessed for advertising. The companies became very rich. Users seemed happy. Privacy was deemed obsolete, like bloodletting and milkmen.', 'Now, the consumer surveillance model underlying Facebook and Google’s free services is under siege from users, regulators and legislators on both sides of the Atlantic. It amounts to a crisis for an internet industry that up until now had taken a reactive, whack-a-mole approach to problems like the spread of fraudulent news and misuse of personal data.', 'The recent revelation that Cambridge Analytica, a voter profiling company that had worked with Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, harvested data from 50 million Facebook users, raised the current uproar, even if the origins lie as far back as the 2016 election. It has been many months of allegations and arguments that the internet in general and social media in particular are pulling society down instead of lifting it up.', 'That has inspired a good deal of debate about more restrictive futures for Facebook and Google. At the furthest extreme, some dream of the companies becoming public utilities. More benign business models that depend less on ads and more on subscriptions have been proposed, although it’s unclear why either company would abandon something that has made them so prosperous.', 'Congress might pass targeted legislation to restrict consumer data use in specific sectors, such as a Senate bill that would require increased transparency in online political advertising, said Daniel J. Weitzner, director of the Internet Policy Research Initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.', 'There are other avenues still, said Jascha Kaykas-Wolff, the chief marketing officer of Mozilla, the nonprofit organization behind the popular Firefox browser, including advertisers and large tech platforms collecting vastly less user data and still effectively customizing ads to consumers.', '“They are just collecting all the data to try to find magic growth algorithms,” Mr. Kaykas-Wolff said of online marketers. This past week, Mozilla halted its ads on Facebook, saying the social network’s default privacy settings allowed access to too much data.', 'The greatest likelihood is that the internet companies, frightened by the tumult, will accept a few more rules and work a little harder for transparency. And there will be hearings on Capitol Hill.', 'The next chapter is also set to play out not in Washington but in Europe, where regulators have already cracked down on privacy violations and are examining the role of data in online advertising.', 'The Cambridge Analytica case, said Vera Jourova, the European Union commissioner for justice, consumers and gender equality, was not just a breach of private data. “This is much more serious, because here we witness the threat to democracy, to democratic plurality,” she said.', 'Although many people had a general understanding that free online services used their personal details to customize the ads they saw, the latest controversy starkly exposed the machinery.', 'Consumers’ seemingly benign activities — their likes — could be used to covertly categorize and influence their behavior. And not just by unknown third parties. Facebook itself has worked directly with presidential campaigns on ad targeting, describing its services in a company case study as “influencing voters.”', '“People are upset that their data may have been used to secretly influence 2016 voters,” said Alessandro Acquisti, a professor of information technology and public policy at Carnegie Mellon University. “If your personal information can help sway elections, which affects everyone’s life and societal well-being, maybe privacy does matter after all.”', 'In interviews, Mr. Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, seemed to accept the possibility of increased privacy regulation, something that would have been unlikely only a few months ago. But some trade group executives also warned that any attempt to curb the use of consumer data would put the business model of the ad-supported internet at risk.', '“You’re undermining a fundamental concept in advertising: reaching consumers who are interested in a particular product,” said Dean C. Garfield, chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade group in Washington whose members include Amazon, Facebook, Google and Twitter.', 'If suspicion of Facebook and Google is a relatively new feeling in the United States, it has been embedded in Europe for historical and cultural reasons that date back to the Nazi Gestapo, the Soviet occupation of Eastern Europe and the Cold War.', '“We’re at an inflection point, when the great wave of optimism about tech is giving way to growing alarm,” said Heather Grabbe, director of the Open Society European Policy Institute. “This is the moment when Europeans turn to the state for protection and answers, and are less likely than Americans to rely on the market to sort out imbalances.”', 'In May, the European Union is instituting a comprehensive new privacy law, called the General Data Protection Regulation. The new rules treat personal data as proprietary, owned by an individual, and any use of that data must be accompanied by permission — opting in rather than opting out — after receiving a request written in clear language, not legalese.', 'Mélanie Voin, a spokeswoman for the European Commission, said the protection rules will have more teeth than the current 1995 directive. For example, a company experiencing a data breach involving individuals must notify the data protection authority within 72 hours and would be subject to fines of up to 20 million euros or 4 percent of its annual revenue.', 'In a January speech in Brussels, Facebook’s Ms. Sandberg said, “We know we can’t just meet the G.D.P.R., but we need to do even more.” Google declined to comment.', 'The United States does not have a consumer privacy law like the General Data Protection Regulation. But after years of pushing for similar legislation, privacy groups said that recent events were giving them new momentum — and they were looking to Europe for inspiration.', '“With the new European law, regulators for the first time have real enforcement tools,” said Jeffrey Chester, the executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a nonprofit group in Washington. “We now have a way to hold these companies accountable.”', 'But any ambitions for new rules may run into the realities of the tech industry.', 'Privacy advocates and even some United States regulators have long been concerned about the ability of online services to track consumers and make inferences about their financial status, health concerns and other intimate details to show them behavior-based ads. They warned that such microtargeting could unfairly categorize or exclude certain people.', 'In 2010, for instance, the Federal Trade Commission proposed a new option for consumers, called Do Not Track. Two years later, the Barack Obama administration introduced a blueprint for a Consumer Privacy Bill of Rights, intended to give Americans more control over what personal details companies collected from them and how the data was used.', 'But the Do Not Track effort and the privacy bill were both stymied.', 'Industry groups successfully argued that collecting personal details posed no harm to consumers and that efforts to hinder data collection would chill innovation. Instead, the advertising industry created a program to allow consumers to opt out of having their data used for customized ads, although it does not allow people to entirely opt out of having their data collected.', '“If it can be shown that the current situation is actually a market failure and not an individual-company failure, then there’s a case to be made for federal regulation” under certain circumstances, said Randall Rothenberg, chief executive of the Interactive Advertising Bureau, a trade group.', 'The business practices of Facebook and Google were reinforced by the fact that no privacy flap lasted longer than a news cycle or two. Nor did people flee for other services. That convinced the companies that digital privacy was a dead issue.', 'If the current furor dies down without meaningful change, critics worry that the problems might become even more entrenched. When the tech industry follows its natural impulses, it becomes even less transparent.', 'That would hamper any long-term understanding of the relationship between social media and political views, an urgent question in Germany, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, the United States and many other places.', '“To know the real interaction between populism and Facebook, you need to give much more access to researchers, not less,” said Paul-Jasper Dittrich, a German research fellow in digital economy at the Jacques Delors Institute.', 'There’s another reason Silicon Valley tends to be reluctant to share information about what it is doing. It believes so deeply in itself that it does not even think there is a need for discussion. The technology world’s remedy for any problem is always more technology.', '“If Facebook and Google were merely interested in maximizing profits, we could regulate them,” said Maciej Ceglowski, who runs Tech Solidarity, a labor advocacy group. “But well-intentioned people can break things not easy to fix. It’s like a child running a bulldozer. They don’t have any sense of the damage they can do.”', 'Their lives may be portrayed as glamorous. In fact, they’re often the opposite. Pity frequent business travelers.', 'Doctors at organizations including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the International Society of Travel Medicine say they are hearing of a range of health problems in frequent travelers, from insomnia and weight gain to viruses. And they said they see a need for more comprehensive research into the health compromises made by business travelers, both short haul and long haul.', '“The whole noncommunicable disease side of travel health is something that’s been under-researched,” said Dr. Martin Cetron, director of the division of global migration and quarantine at the C.D.C.', 'Lin Chen, the incoming president of the International Society of Travel Medicine and an associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, said that jet lag, combined with a lack of access to exercise and fresh food while on the road and sporadic engagement at home, needs rigorous study. “Right now, it’s hard to know the impact because not enough research has been done,” she said. “But certainly it’s significant.”', 'Dr. Cetron said the image of the jet-setter who flies around making million-dollar deals no longer reflects the experience of most business travelers. “The reality is that the full spectrum of the work force now travels. Not just C.E.O.s but the more modest businessperson — think of junior employees at multinational companies, or aid workers who are called to respond to international crises. Some of these people have to travel on really shoestring budgets.” For them, flying business class or staying in fancy hotels is not an option.', 'In 2011, Catherine Richards, a doctor at Boston Health Economics, and Dr. Andrew Rundle, a professor of epidemiology at Columbia University, wrote a report, “Business Travel Linked to Obesity and Poor Health,” published by the Mailman School of Public Health at Columbia.', 'That study tracked the body mass index; levels of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, what’s known as “bad” cholesterol; and self-rated healthiness of more than 13,000 business travelers. Dr. Rundle has just completed a follow-up study, and the new findings, currently under peer review, “are pretty much the same as the old ones,” he said. “What we’re seeing is kind of like a U-shaped curve. People who travel the most and people who don’t travel at all have the worst health.”', 'An explanation for nontravelers’ poor health may be that chronic conditions prevent them from boarding planes in the first place, he said. The culprits of the poor health among constant travelers are the usual suspects: bad airport food, uneven exercise habits and jet lag. If there is a sweet spot, Dr. Rundle said, it may be with those who travel for work only a few times a year.', 'Dr. Rundle, who lives in western Massachusetts and commutes to Manhattan about five days a month, said he was inspired to look into the health effects of professional travel by his own experience. On a business trip, he said, he learned his options were limited to ordering dinner from a Cheesecake Factory restaurant. “I was just, like, this is not good,” he said. “Catherine and I started looking at business travelers’ B.M.I. data.”', 'What they found in the initial study was that the average body mass index of travelers who are on the road 21 or more nights a month was higher than in travelers who were away from home one to six nights per month. For a 6-foot-tall person, the difference amounted to a 10-pound difference in weight.', 'That finding supports what Dr. Rundle said he suspected was a problem for traveling employees. “If you’re in your 30s and you’re traveling a lot and you’re eating poorly and you have poor access to physical activity, that starts to catch up with you,” he said. “Over the next 10 years or so, the consequences start to become things like high blood pressure and diabetes and obesity. Long-term chronic issues.”', 'His yet-unpublished sequel study looks more closely at business travelers’ mental health — an area both Dr. Cetron at the C.D.C. and Dr. Chen at the International Society of Travel Medicine said was important but fell outside their purview. It includes factors like alcohol abuse and accidents and injuries caused by lack of sleep and jet lag. “These are things that can have really immediate consequences for yourself and your career,” he said.', 'A Harvard Business Review article in 2015 noted that frequent business travel accelerates aging and increases the likelihood of suffering a stroke or heart attack, and that more than 70 percent of business travelers report some symptoms of an unhealthy lifestyle, including poor diet, lack of exercise, excess drinking, stress, mood swings and gastrointestinal problems. “All of which impair job performance,” it said.', 'If corporations are taking note, they’re not always taking action. “Travelers themselves are concerned about their health and the amount of time they’re away from home,” said Greeley Koch, executive director of the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, a nonprofit organization with board members from companies including Mastercard and Tesla. Policies to limit travel, or to make it less toxic through measures like upgrades to business class or added time for taking in fresh air during a work trip, depend on bosses and are entirely unregulated, he said. “It’s really a mixed bag when it comes to addressing these issues. It depends on the company.”', 'Doctors like Phyllis Kozarsky, a professor of medicine in the division of infectious diseases at Emory University School of Medicine and the medical director of TravelWell, a clinic in Atlanta for international travelers, said they see the need for more company attention to the issue.', '“A lot of times, I’ll have people come in and say, ‘I was in so-and-so country, and I think I have a sinus infection,’” she said. “Then when I close the door to the exam room, they’ll burst out crying. They made the appointment ostensibly for a sinus infection, but they’re so tired and worn out from traveling that they just need to see someone and talk about it. They don’t want to share it with their business because they’re concerned about walking up the corporate ladder and their ability to succeed.”', 'Sharing tales of travel weariness at home may not be an option, either.', '“I’ll hear things like, ‘My kid had a performance last week and my husband’s upset with me because I wasn’t there,’ or ‘I can’t do this any more and I don’t know how to tell my family,’” Dr. Kozarsky said. “You’re leaving people at home who are not happy you’re gone for a number of reasons, and when you get home you’re trying to catch up on all the things that happened while you were gone, but all you can think about is how tired you are. The only thing you can do as a doctor is to reassure them, to give people permission to feel the way they’re feeling.”', 'A frequent traveler, Brian Kelly, founder of the Points Guy, a digital platform for travel tips, said his world had been “flipped upside-down” when his dog had an illness recently. “It makes me sick to my stomach to think of leaving him. I have this business, and I have all these events I need to go to, but all I want to do is stay home and take care of my dog. In the back of my mind I know I need to take a 30-day health break,” he said.', 'Such a break would set off its own work-related stressors, though, he said.', 'And that is in keeping with what Dr. Cetron of the C.D.C. has been seeing.', '“Things are merging and changing in the world of business travel,” he said. “Whether trips are frequent short ones or long ones, the intensity of travel schedules is putting people under a lot of pressure.”']