Travis Kalanick staged a power play at Uber late last week, and a showdown with the company’s board could come as soon as Tuesday.

Here’s what happened.

Thursday: Uber and an investor, Goldman Sachs, made a proposal to the board that would reduce Mr. Kalanick’s voting power at the company.

Friday: Mr. Kalanick filled two board seats that he controlled, adding Ursula Burns, the former C.E.O. of Xerox, and John Thain, the former C.E.O. of Merrill Lynch. He said that was a response to the proposal.

Katie Benner and Mike Isaac, NYT:

Still, Uber directors are reluctant to oppose the new board appointments, people briefed on internal discussions told The NYT.

The context

Uber is trying to finalize a deal with SoftBank of Japan to let existing investors cash out. (Goldman is working on that plan.)

What’s next

Uber’s board is scheduled to discuss the voting rights proposal on Tuesday.

More from Bloomberg:

On the radar

Bloomberg: Mr. Khosrowshahi will meet on Tuesday with London’s travel regulators, who have declined to renew the company’s license to operate in their city.

Congress

The company said on Sunday that it planned to turn over more than 3,000 Russian-linked advertisements to congressional investigators on Monday.

Mike Isaac and Scott Shane, NYT:

China

The company has blocked the profile of Guo Wengui, a Chinese billionaire who lives in exile in New York and has described deep corruption among the families of top Communist Party officials.

Alexandra Stevenson, NYT:

A Facebook spokeswoman didn’t identify who had made the complaint about Mr. Guo.

The big read 

New York: “Does even Mark Zuckerberg know what Facebook is? The same company that gives you birthday reminders also helped ensure the integrity of the German elections.”

Business leaders and conservative economists assert that a permanent cut in the corporate tax rate is the best way to spur investment and job growth. But the Republican proposal may not give them that reassurance.

Alan Rappeport, NYT:

The prominent economic pessimist David Stockman, a director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Reagan administration, said Wall Street was “delusional” if it believed the plan would pass.

What Mr. Stockman told CNBC:

Meanwhile, the Goldman Sachs analyst David Kostin thinks the rise in the price of value stocks is about to end. From his note on Friday, “Fade the value rally”:

Per Michael C. Bender, WSJ:

The contenders President Trump has met so far: Jerome Powell, a current Federal Reserve governor; Kevin Warsh, a former Fed governor

Also in the running: The current chairwoman, Janet Yellen; John Taylor, a Stanford economist; John Allison, the former C.E.O. of BB&T Bank

More from The WSJ:

 Evercore ISI analysts on Friday: “Kevin Warsh would be a great leader.” Their reasoning:

Evercore ISI’s bottom line: “Think more Greenspan, less Bernanke/Yellen.”

But the NYT’s Kate Kelly warned over the weekend not to draw too many conclusions from the interview process.

The euro was knocked down on Monday as investors kept an eye on the Catalan independence referendum, which was marked by violence and left hundreds injured.

But fallout for the broader markets is expected to be limited for now.

Esteban Duarte and Maria Tadeo, Bloomberg:

There could be more uncertainty ahead, especially if the Catalan government unilaterally declares independence.

Vanity Fair’s latest list is out. Who’s up, who’s down and who has stayed put:

• Jeff Bezos and Mark Zuckerberg hold on in first and second place.

• Evan Spiegel of Snap drops from third to 28th, following the trajectory of his company’s stock price.

• Robert Mueller, the special counsel investigating Russia and the 2016 presidential election, makes his debut at number six.

• Also in the top 10: Tim Cook, Larry Page and Elon Musk.

• Mr. Khosrowshahi comes in at 42, while the Uber whistle-blower Susan Fowler is No. 79.

DealBook’s Andrew Ross Sorkin is headed to Los Angeles for the Vanity Fair Summit, where he’ll be interviewing Ted Sarandos, Netflix’s chief content officer, and the filmmaker Ava DuVernay.

Investors had written them off as overpriced and underperforming — but now they’re making money and taking in new cash. The average hedge fund is up 5.4 percent through the end of August.

Rob Copeland, WSJ:

• Marc St John, the partner at CVC who led the takeovers of Formula One and Breitling, will step down in March after two decades at the firm, according to The FT.

• Vis Raghavan, JPMorgan Chase’s deputy chief executive and head of banking for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, will take over full leadership of the region from Daniel Pinto, the bank’s chief of investment banking, according to The FT.

SHANGHAI — Just days after being likened to a king by President Trump, President Xi Jinping of China on Monday reiterated his commitment to reform while holding court before a group of wealthy and influential business leaders from his country and the United States.

Mr. Xi, speaking at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing during an event shown on national television, addressed topics such as globalization, innovation and China’s relationship with the United States at a gathering of executives who included Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple; Stephen Schwarzman, the chief executive of the Blackstone Group; and Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive.

The reception was one of Mr. Xi’s first public appearances with foreign visitors since a key Chinese Communist Party congress elevated him to the same exalted status as Mao Zedong, the country’s founding father, and Deng Xiaoping, who led the country from 1978 until 1989.

The event — just a week before Mr. Trump is scheduled to make his first visit to China — was most likely arranged to signal China’s status as an economic superpower and peer of the United States.

Chinese diplomats have used past business summits to promote their country’s economic clout and influence with American companies before testier meetings with United States leaders and diplomats. On a 2015 trip to the United States, for example, Mr. Xi stopped in Seattle to visit American technology executives before going to Washington to meet with President Barack Obama.

On Monday, Mr. Xi used his remarks to promote his credentials as a leader following Deng’s footsteps as an economic reformer and defender of global trade.

“China is advancing comprehensive deepening of reform with unprecedented determination and vigor,” he said, according to a summary of his comments issued by Xinhua, the official Chinese news agency. He added that “China has and will continue issuing a series of measures to further open up.”

Mr. Xi’s professed his commitment to economic openness and reform nearly 10 days after he opened a Communist Party congress that confirmed him as China’s leader for five more years. The congress also endorsed his vision, laid out in a work report, of a nation firmly in the party’s grip and dedicated to reclaiming a central place on the international stage.

International investors and business groups have grown increasingly skeptical about Mr. Xi’s commitment to opening up the Chinese economy. The Chinese government, citing worries that foreign technology and companies could compromise the country’s security, has fed those doubts by tightening restrictions over the internet and advanced technology.

And even as Mr. Xi reiterated his commitment to reform, he emphasized that China’s sovereignty and security were of paramount importance.

“China will firmly defend its sovereignty, security and developmental interests, and at the same time adhere to a fundamental national policy of opening up,” he said.

In a further move in that direction, the Chinese government on Monday announced new rules meant to restrict online journalism, including a blacklist for erring journalists.

For the executives attending the event on Monday, the restrictions are hitting the bottom line. Facebook remains mostly blocked in China despite the company’s lobbying efforts. Apple said this year that it would build a data center in the country to conform with a new Chinese cybersecurity law.

The moves by Beijing have prompted calls in Washington for added scrutiny of Chinese companies seeking to do business in the United States or buy up American technology companies. Such issues are unlikely to be addressed in the coming meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Xi, experts said.

Mr. Xi’s appeal to the executives on Monday in some ways contrasted with Mr. Trump’s clashes with the leaders of some American tech companies. Other executives attending the event included Satya Nadella, Microsoft’s chief executive; Masayoshi Son, the chief executive of SoftBank; Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary; Jack Ma, the founder of Alibaba; Pony Ma, Tencent’s chief executive; and Terry Guo, the chief executive of Foxconn.

SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook is working on a new tool that could help drive subscriptions to news organizations that publish articles directly on the online service, an effort to improve the fraught relationship between the social giant and media companies.

The tool would be added to Facebook’s Instant Articles product, which allows publishers to post news articles that can be read within Facebook rather than on the publisher’s website.

The discussions about the tool are still in the early stages, according to two people familiar with the talks who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the details were not public. But it is possible that Facebook could produce a metered pay wall product similar to those used by some publishers. After reading 10 New York Times articles on Facebook, for instance, a user could be sent to The Times’s subscription sign-up page.

Facebook plans to start a pilot with a small group of publishers using the tool in October and to expand the initiative in 2018 if early results are promising. It was not clear which publishers might participate in the test.

The Wall Street Journal reported earlier on the discussions.

“We are in early talks with several news publishers about how we might better support subscription business models on Facebook,” Campbell Brown, head of news partnerships at Facebook, said in a statement. “As part of the Facebook Journalism Project, we are taking the time to work closely together with our partners and understand their needs.”

News outlets have become increasingly dissatisfied with how online platforms like Facebook and Google are consuming the digital advertising market and gaining more control over the online distribution of news. This month, a group of publishers started an effort to gain group bargaining rights so they might be able to negotiate more effectively with the online platforms that are threatening their business models.

While nearly all publishers have shifted their attention to increasing digital revenue, most are still seeking profitable solutions that will work in the long term.

Although many publishers recognize the importance of online platforms for getting their content in front of broad audiences, there are also drawbacks. Publishers are concerned about losing valuable ties to their readers, particularly subscriber data and payment connections. Readers may also become accustomed to staying in Facebook to consume news, instead of, say, navigating directly to publishers’ sites.

At the same time, Facebook has drawn criticism, particularly from publishers, for its role in distributing untrue articles that readers can mistake for real news.

Other companies have used publishers’ wariness of Facebook to their advantage. Last year, Google introduced its AMP tool, a way to expedite the delivery of partners’ articles in search results. Amazon, meanwhile, is paying publishers to post articles on Spark, its commerce-related social network unveiled this week.

Facebook’s move to test a news subscription product may be an effort to appease publishers as it combats this and other issues, including regulatory and antitrust scrutiny. And if Facebook were to adopt the subscription feature, it would move the platform closer to controlling the relationship with the reader — a relationship that news outlets used to own directly.

It is not clear if Facebook will benefit financially from a news subscription feature. The company does not intend to take a cut of payments to news outlets, according to one of the people familiar with the talks. Facebook indirectly benefits, however, by encouraging people to spend more time on its site; while they are there, those users will see more ads.

As more publishers move toward subscription models, a news subscription service like the one Facebook has proposed could work to their advantage by driving more casual readers to pay for news.

But it could have risks. If many news outlets participate in the feature, it could create a bundling effect, allowing readers to read potentially hundreds of free articles a month — 10 from The New York Times, 10 from The Washington Post, 10 from The Wall Street Journal, and so on — before they are asked to pay.

In recent days, I’ve gotten to know beekeepers in Rhode Island, dental hygienists in New Jersey and Wiccans in Tennessee. I’ve seen gardeners swapping fertilizer advice, flight attendants complaining about annoying passengers and fishermen arguing about which lures are best for catching muskies. I now know that there are hundreds of people who love creating memes about “The Sopranos,” and thousands who believe, with total conviction, that the Earth is flat.

All of this has been revealed to me because, for the better part of a month, I have immersed myself in the fascinating, enlightening and sometimes scary world of private Facebook groups. I’ve gotten access to scores of private groups — more than 100 in all — ranging in size from a handful of members to millions. I’ve joined Facebook groups that represent my real-life interests (Home Cooks, Pitbull Fans) and groups that have nothing to do with me (Lyme Disease Group, Quilting for Beginners, Cannabis Growers Helping Cannabis Growers). For weeks, I lurked silently in these forums and, when possible, tried to interview their moderators and members.

This wasn’t just a stunt. Facebook recently changed its corporate mission to emphasize the role of private groups, and I wanted to see what diving headfirst into the new Facebook could tell me about the company’s future. After all, if Facebook is our global town square, then groups are its gated subdivisions, the private spaces where people gather to share information they might not be willing to broadcast publicly, or behave in ways they might not want their friends to know about. What happens, I wondered, in the V.I.P. rooms of the world’s biggest club?

My catalyst came in June when Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, announced that instead of trying to “make the world more open and connected,” as it had in the past, Facebook would aim to “give people the power to build community and bring the world closer together,” in part by placing a greater emphasis on groups.

Private groups have existed on Facebook for years. But the decision to emphasize them now — at a time when Facebook’s cultural and political influence is being carefully scrutinized — is a fascinating shift for a social network that spent years encouraging its users to share as much information as they could, as publicly as possible.

Mr. Zuckerberg, who sits atop a $450 billion for-profit enterprise, clearly sees a business opportunity as well as a community-building exercise. According to the company, which is one of the nation’s top 10 public companies by market capitalization, only 100 million or so of Facebook’s two billion users around the world currently belong to what it calls “meaningful” groups, the kind that become significant parts of their members’ lives. That leaves 1.9 billion users who could be brought closer together on Facebook (and who, presumably, would spend more time on the platform as a result).

Groups could also help ease Facebook’s partisan rancor. The company hasn’t explicitly linked its focus on groups to last year’s election, but the success of private political groups like Pantsuit Nation, a community of Hillary Clinton supporters that grew from a handful of users to 3.9 million members in a matter of months, clearly showed that some users preferred to hang out in groups of like-minded people.

Libby Chamberlain, the founder of Pantsuit Nation, started the group before last year’s election and now oversees a team of 30 moderators who wade through thousands of submitted posts every week, removing comments that are hostile or disparaging.

“For a lot of people, this is a group that has a lot of people who identify as liberals within conservative spaces, or people who might not want their Facebook friends to know their political leanings,” Ms. Chamberlain told me in an interview. “We don’t call it a safe space — it’s a platform for like-minded progressives to share stories, resources and calls to action.”

Pantsuit Nation is a secret group, meaning that users need an invitation from a current member to join. But for other types of Facebook enclaves, known as “closed” groups, joining is as simple as clicking a button and waiting for a moderator to approve the request. Despite knowing that I was a journalist, most closed groups let me in with few questions asked. (One notable exception was the group for owners of Ford F100 pickup trucks, which invited me in, then booted me after concluding that my employer was “fake news.”)

Facebook’s gargantuan size means that there’s a group for nearly any conceivable interest, no matter how niche. Want to talk shop with other equine veterinarians? Just join Horse Vet Corner (7,865 members). Want to trade tips with fellow model train buffs? Come on over to N Scale Model Trains (6,212 members).

Some of the groups I joined were reminiscent of the message boards and fan forums that populated the early internet. A group called Wine Memes for Wine Moms (6,846 members) offered funny graphics and jokes about the lives of maternal oenophiles. Frugal Full-Time R.V.ers (12,899 members) offered tips on finding cheap pit stops along major roadways, and What’s Wrong With My Plant? (20,385 members) featured amateur gardeners sharing photos of their ailing shrubs with fellow green thumbs.

Other groups contained more intimate content. Like the Infidelity Support Group (12,948 members), in which partners of unfaithful spouses traded stories and messages of sympathy. Or Warrior Village (2,554 members), a support group for military veterans with behavioral health issues. For people going through tough times, finding kindred spirits inside private Facebook groups can make the social network feel less lonely.

Private groups can also provide a refuge from Facebook’s less savory elements. Matt Prestbury, a Baltimore-based preschool teacher and father of four, started a group called Black Fathers in 2009, out of frustration with negative portrayals of African-American parents in the media. He wanted to create a space on Facebook where black fathers could talk openly without fear of racists or trolls butting in. The group, now with more than 27,000 members, is a hyper-earnest, incredibly positive place where fathers use hashtags like #BlackLove and brag about their children’s accomplishments.

“I wanted to create a real collective as fathers, where we could connect and be resources to each other,” Mr. Prestbury told me.

Of course, like all social media platforms, Facebook can be abused. I also saw private groups that spread misinformation, harassed people and encouraged harmful behavior. In Flat Earth — No Trolls (22,538 members), members shared unscientific evidence that the world was indeed flat and mocked “globers” who claimed otherwise. In a political group called Pinochet’s Anti-SJW Beach Resort (36,059 members), members cruelly evaluated the physical appearance of women and made racist and anti-Semitic jokes.

Arguably, by encouraging a shift to private groups, Facebook is risking becoming a haven for these kinds of bad actors, a fate that has befallen other internet forums, such as Reddit. Content within groups can still be reported for violations of Facebook’s community standards, and Facebook recently gave moderators more tools to combat harassment and abuse. Still, I joined several seemingly lawless groups where shocking and offensive content was everywhere.

Another worrisome possibility is that by promoting private groups, Facebook may be amplifying the much-discussed “filter bubble” effect, sorting like-minded people into closed echo chambers and sheltering them from divergent views.

As I joined groups, I noticed that my Facebook feed showed more updates from those groups, and fewer posts from my friends and the news pages I follow, a hint that Facebook may be privileging group-based content in the newsfeed algorithm that determines what users see. That’s fine, if the goal of Facebook is to build strong micro-communities. It’s not so great if the goal is to expose users to a wide range of views and experiences outside their core interests. (It’s also worrisome if you’re a digital publisher who depends on Facebook’s algorithm for traffic, but that’s a different column.)

Facebook’s product manager for groups, Alex Deve, told me that he believed private groups could still produce a diverse spectrum of opinions. “In groups, people have one thing in common,” he said. “It doesn’t always mean they have everything in common.” Mr. Deve said that the company’s testing had revealed that users who belonged to meaningful groups, whether they were partisan or not, were much more enthusiastic about Facebook than users who belonged to none.

“People need safe spaces to share things that are private to them,” he said.

During my weeks of Facebook group immersion, I was reminded of how much early 2000s message-board chatter was banal, off-topic or argumentative. But I’d also seen a lot of intimate conversations that wouldn’t have happened out in the open, and I grew to appreciate the need for these smaller, cordoned-off areas — especially if those areas can be carefully patrolled for signs of bad behavior. Whether it’s Self-Taught Programmers (25,809 members) or Kayak Newbies (9,910 members), perhaps the marketplace of ideas could be improved with a few more walls.

Our usual message to children is that they have a lot less authority than they might wish. Parents, teachers, adults: These are the people, we explain, who are in charge. But in March, as tens of thousands of children across the country flooded out of their classrooms to protest gun violence in schools, the moment was hailed by some as a tremendous display of power — perhaps especially in those places where school administrators flexed their own authority and tried to prohibit students from participating. “Supporters say the walkouts and demonstrations represent a realization of power and influence by young people,” The Washington Post reported. “So amazing to see young people take back their power and USE it!” Miley Cyrus tweeted. “By myself, I don’t think I have the power,” one student told MSNBC. “But together with all these people here, I think we can make a change.”

The very reason for the demonstrations, of course, was that the students did not possess one very specific kind of power — the ability to make rules or laws that might somehow curtail the number of guns and shootings in their schools. This lack of control over their own safety has been a key aspect of their rhetoric ever since survivors of the February shooting in Parkland, Fla., captured the nation’s attention via Twitter. “We’re children,” David Hogg said in an appearance on CNN. “You guys are the adults.”

At least one senator seemed to agree, locating the real power not with the students but with the audience they addressed: “Keep speaking truth to power and demanding change,” Kirsten Gillibrand urged. In theory, that power resides with the nation’s voters, but even this is too indirect; we already know that Americans overwhelmingly favor more stringent gun regulation than their elected officials are inclined to enact. It is a much smaller segment of people who hold the clearest authority to change things: the professional political class. And even as those children demonstrated, a healthy portion of that class was studiously ignoring them and earnestly debating the merits of arming teachers instead. If they were in any real way affected by the power of a student walkout, they certainly weren’t admitting it. The students’ power to captivate a share of the public sat in one corner; elected officials’ power to actually rule over that public sat quietly in another. No matter how thundering the children’s dissent might have been, there was no meaningful intersection between those two kinds of power.

In 1990, the Harvard international relations scholar Joseph Nye published a book, “Bound to Lead,” in which he drew a distinction between two different forms of power. One was what he called “hard” or “command” power — the traditional guns-and-money leverage one nation could use to force another nation to do what it wanted. For the other, he coined the term “soft power” — meaning “when one country gets other countries to want what it wants.” Soft power was more seductive than coercive; it could be built on culture, on ideals, on leading by example.

Nye’s terms are now used by political scientists and business-school professors alike. They are a product of the same line of thinking that appears in a common expression: “Power comes in many forms.” This is the same line of thinking too that so often has undergraduate students intoxicated by the ideas of the French theorist Michel Foucault, who saw power as ephemeral, taking countless shapes, everywhere and nowhere: It was “at once visible and invisible, present and hidden, ubiquitous,” like a light emanating from a thousand pinprick sources. Foucault’s idea of resistance was to spend your time mapping out all those pinprick sources of power, like the stars: If you wanted to speak truth to power, he suggested, you first had to divine your position inside a whole constellation of influence. This sort of thinking can make our view of power far more nuanced and complex, but it can also make it quite confusing. The dispiriting message some took away from Foucault was that things were, ultimately, a bit hopeless: Power was far too chaotic to help anyone figure out the right thing to do.

This dizzying and disordered vision of power isn’t reserved for high-stakes international affairs or abstract philosophical contexts. It is a feature of almost every social or cultural battle we have. The question of power has buzzed its way, for instance, through a huge share of recent conversations about sexual harassment. In many #MeToo stories, the power a harasser has over his target is clear and hard as a diamond: He is the boss; he can hire or fire, promote or demote. But in so many others, a softer pull is involved — a matter of age, or ambient status, or standing within an industry. Last month, when several women told NPR about what they saw as exploitative relationships with the writer Sherman Alexie, one described her account as one “about power, and abuse of power.” This wasn’t because Alexie necessarily held any formal or official power over the other writers he encountered; the power his accuser was referring to derived from his literary success, influence and social standing.

People hold countless opinions about accusations like this, and plenty of them have already been aired at great and contentious length. But even within those arguments, the question of who holds “power” is a constant, each side insisting it lies with the other. In a Slate interview with Isaac Chotiner, the writer Katie Roiphe, who has expressed skepticism about what she sees as the rush to judgment of #MeToo, described being pilloried in response. When Chotiner tried to suggest that being vilified by Twitter users might not be so consequential, the two reached an impasse. “You are saying they don’t have power, but I think they do have power,” Roiphe said. She saw a group of social media critics and writers as having the power to set the terms of the conversation; they undoubtedly felt the same way about her, a tenured professor scolding them from the pages of a prestigious publication like Harper’s.

It was this point, Chotiner said, that was “the crux of our disagreement.” Which is in its own way a summation of where we all are: Everyone, from the online critic to the president, seems always to believe that power lies elsewhere, in some branch of the constellation beyond their reach. Try to map out almost any part of this cultural moment, and you will find something similarly chaotic — all the players passing by one another, each convinced they are doing the right thing, and very few convinced that they, in the face of powerful opposition, have enough influence to affect much at all.

Those who feel inspired by cultural moments like the student walkout tend to be struck by how easy it can feel, once a certain critical mass builds, to sweep away what once seemed like entrenched and unassailable sources of might. “Power is like money: imaginary, entirely dependent on belief,” Tim Kreider wrote in a Times Op-Ed in March, urging the young to rise up against the usual order of things. “Most of the power of institutions lies in the faith people have in them.” But the slippage between those two sentences — between “entirely” and “most of” — is not always easy to overcome. Some power is very concrete; some power really is a gun to your head. And the fact that some of it is very soft — that it is socially constructed, or dependent on belief — does not make it any less real. It is indeed just like money, just not in the way Kreider thinks: You may conclude that dollar bills are mere worthless symbols of value, but your lack of faith will not prevent your starving to death without them.

The chaos and multiplicity of power, then, can be something of a magic trick, keeping us arguing forever about who has it. Which isn’t to say there isn’t room for clarity about certain definite, reliable sources of power. The science-fiction writer Philip K. Dick, for instance, found it difficult to believe in any single, stable reality — but in a 1978 essay, he explained how even an anarchic world could have its masters. He believed in creating new realities, he said; he’d dedicated his life to it. But he didn’t think all realities were created equal. “Unceasingly we are bombarded with pseudorealities manufactured by very sophisticated people using very sophisticated electronic mechanisms,” he said. “I do not distrust their motives; I distrust their power. They have a lot of it.”

He was talking, back then, about television and the Disney corporation. Today, though, it’s easy to hear those words and think of Facebook, or Twitter, or any of the “electronic mechanisms” on which our broad movements of anger or disinformation emerge. Right now the owners of these platforms seem to believe they are merely facilitating maps of every point of power in the universe. They thrive on all our little contests and arguments about who has power over whom and eschew responsibility for any of the chaos created by them. But as we’ve learned in recent weeks, there is actual power accruing to the hosts of all our debates, and to the maps they make of us — maps others may use in trying to manipulate, say, the outcome of an election. This power is concrete, and its source obvious. It is worth, as Dick says, our distrust.

SAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, on Wednesday publicly addressed for the first time the misuse of data belonging to 50 million users of the social network and described the steps the company would take to safeguard the information of its more than two billion monthly users.

Although his statement addressing a chorus of criticism fell short of a full-throated apology, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would contact users whose data had been harvested through a personality quiz app and passed along to the political data firm Cambridge Analytica.

“We have a responsibility to protect your data,” Mr. Zuckerberg said Wednesday in a Facebook post, “and if we can’t then we don’t deserve to serve you.”

Mr. Zuckerberg, 33, was trying to quell the crisis over the disclosure last weekend that Cambridge Analytica had used data that had been improperly obtained from Facebook as the firm worked on behalf of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign.

“Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there?” Mr. Zuckerberg said later in an interview with The New York Times. He added, “Were there apps which could have gotten access to more information and potentially sold it without us knowing or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control.”

Mr. Zuckerberg said the company would investigate apps like the third-party quiz app that had previously obtained access to “large amounts of information” from the social network. He also said the company would restrict third-party developers’ access.

“We also made mistakes, there’s more to do, and we need to step up and do it,” he wrote in his Facebook statement.

The Cambridge Analytica revelations added to the questions that have been raised about Facebook’s handling of user data and security. Those questions have only intensified as the company has faced criticism over the role its platform played in Russian attempts to influence the 2016 presidential election and the way it has been used to spread misinformation on the internet.

The resulting backlash is Facebook’s worst crisis since it was founded by Mr. Zuckerberg and others in 2004. The information, photos and other content that users post and their frequent engagement with the platform is crucial to the social network, and to the company’s profitability. Questions about user privacy and security threaten the company’s standing at a time when people are already uneasy about whether the use of technology can bring good or ill.

Last Friday, after The New York Times, The Observer of London and Channel 4 in Britain told Facebook that Cambridge Analytica had not deleted all of the data it had obtained, the social network banned the political consulting firm and Aleksandr Kogan, the Cambridge University researcher who created the personality quiz app that was used to harvest user data.

“This was a breach of trust between Kogan, Cambridge Analytica and Facebook,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote on Wednesday. “But it was also a breach of trust between Facebook and the people who share their data with us and expect us to protect it.”

Facebook representatives confirmed that Cambridge Analytica representatives met with Facebook on Tuesday to discuss lifting the ban. Mr. Zuckerberg told The Times he did not rule out allowing Cambridge Analytica back, saying Facebook must first conduct a “full forensic audit of the firm” and “have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.”

The reaction to the Cambridge Analytica disclosure has been severe. Politicians in the United States and Britain have called for Mr. Zuckerberg to explain how his company handles user data, and state attorneys general in Massachusetts and New York have begun investigating Cambridge Analytica and Facebook. A #DeleteFacebook movement calling on people to close their accounts has also gathered steam.

In Washington, there have been more calls for regulation of internet companies like Facebook. Mr. Zuckerberg’s troubles there were illustrated by the final passage on Wednesday of a bill to combat sex trafficking. The bill would lift liability protections that internet companies have enjoyed for content that users post on their platforms. Facebook and other internet giants had quietly fought the bill for more than a year, but eventually dropped their opposition.

Lawmakers who have demanded that Mr. Zuckerberg testify before Congress about Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica were not appeased by his statement.

“You need to come to Congress and testify to this under oath,” Senator Ed Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, tweeted in response to Mr. Zuckerberg’s post.

Independent researchers who have used data from Facebook said that Mr. Zuckerberg’s statement did not acknowledge how the gathering of user data was fundamental to the company’s operations.

“He avoided the big issue, which is that for many years, Facebook was basically giving away user data like it was handing out candy,” said Jonathan Albright, research director at the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia University. “There is no question that handing out that data made Facebook the success it is as a company. This has to be recognized as part of their business model and not just a one-off problem.”

In his statement, Mr. Zuckerberg laid out a timeline of Facebook’s dealings with Cambridge Analytica. He traced the information-sharing issue to 2007, when Facebook decided to become an open platform — enabling people to use Facebook to log into other apps and share detailed personal information about themselves and their friends.

In 2013, Mr. Kogan, the Cambridge researcher, created a personality quiz app that about 300,000 people installed, Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Because Facebook was an open platform, Mr. Kogan was able to collect data on tens of millions of friends of those users who had installed the personality quiz app.

A year later, Mr. Zuckerberg said, Facebook changed its policy to limit how much data third-party apps could access. “These actions would prevent any app like Kogan’s from being able to access so much data today,” he wrote.

By 2015, Mr. Kogan had shared his data and findings with Cambridge Analytica, which later used the material to single out American voters. Mr. Zuckerberg said Facebook had banned Mr. Kogan’s app and demanded that the researcher and Cambridge Analytica formally certify that the data had been deleted. He did not address in his post why Facebook had not already disclosed those activities to its users whose data had been harvested by Mr. Kogan and Cambridge Analytica.

“Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in the interview.

For Mr. Zuckerberg, the outcry over Cambridge Analytica has been personally damaging. Inside Facebook, even his staunch supporters have described a tense atmosphere. Some employees have sought to transfer to other divisions, such as the messaging app WhatsApp and the photo-sharing platform Instagram, calling their work on Facebook’s main product “demoralizing.”

Mr. Zuckerberg spent part of the past week hunkered down with a small group of engineers to discuss how to make information on Facebook’s users more secure, and to potentially give them more control of their data, according to two Facebook employees who declined to be named because the proceedings were confidential.

His silence on the matter has prompted mounting criticism in the past few days. Facebook held a staff meeting on Tuesday to answer questions about Cambridge Analytica and the surrounding outcry, but Mr. Zuckerberg did not appear at the event. He was scheduled to appear at a staff meeting that was set for Friday.

In his interview with The Times, Mr. Zuckerberg said that the company’s efforts to safeguard its platform from bad behavior — which includes preparing for possible interference attempts in the 2018 midterm elections — were an important part of a larger transformation at the company, which has had to adjust from its roots as a social network for college students into a powerful global information hub.

“If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.