['Early this year, The Times brought together a group of national correspondents to write in-depth stories about regions and people who might have received short shrift in the run-up to last November’s election.', 'One thing we would not pursue was endless post-mortems on the election itself. President Trump might not even be mentioned in these articles, conceived under the in-house rubric “Fault Lines.”', '“What we desperately want is for our stories to shed light, to tell our readers things about America they do not already understand, with fairness, clear eyes and empathy in abundance,” David Halbfinger, who was the deputy national editor, wrote to us in an email.', 'The articles, mostly deep dives after many weeks of reporting, have begun rolling out. Their subjects include a look at the religious left, the collision of two worlds in an act of vandalism at an Arkansas mosque, an immigrant’s choice to “self-deport” from Iowa and a dispatch of mine from an Illinois truck stop about long-haul drivers.', 'My latest contribution, an account of an auto parts factory in Michigan, strays a bit from the mission. It probably won’t satisfy many people still looking to understand Trump Country.', 'I pursued it because I was interested in why nonmetropolitan regions — counties that the president won comfortably — had ceased to be leading incubators of jobs as they had been just a generation ago. But the answers to that question (educational disparities and the opioid crisis, among others) quickly became less interesting to me than the individuality and daily gains and setbacks of the factory’s owner, Anita-Maria Quillen.', 'Ms. Quillen, 35, is one of those people we perhaps don’t know as well as we ought to. A small-business owner in the manufacturing sector, she is integral to the American economy. Difficult choices she makes to contain costs and remain afloat in a cutthroat global industry exact a high personal cost. On her computer monitor she has posted a sticky note to remind her to show empathy: “It’s about feelings.”', 'The mother of two small boys, Ms. Quillen — whose husband works for her overseeing the factory floor — voted for Mr. Trump (and admires his daughter Ivanka). But her daily personal and business obsessions have nothing to do with national politics. When a consultant visited her plant in May and asked what she hoped for in the future, she told him, “The goal for the company as a whole is to provide a better life for the employees that choose to be part of our family here.”', 'During my repeated visits in May and June, Ms. Quillen allowed me open access to her meetings and phone calls, her staff of 78 and the production floor.', 'A former pre-med student, she had fallen in love with manufacturing after working for a summer in the plant’s front office. (The company at the time was owned by her parents, and when it fell into bankruptcy Ms. Quillen cashed out her 401(k) and mortgaged her home to help rescue it.) As someone whose work product appears in pixels or evanescent newsprint, I could see how an infatuation with factories might be possible. There was something gloriously concrete about the injection-molding machines on the plant floor. One of them, Press 26, closes and opens like a slow-motion clap, producing 150,000 pucklike pieces a week. The pieces go into shock absorbers in Fords, Chevrolets and other vehicles.', 'The press operator, a man named Dorman Crews, 49, had been at the company for two and a half years. “I spent half my life playing hard,” he told me. “The other half it’s time to get real.” He had moved to Jackson to be “a phone call away” from a brother with health problems.', 'The time I spent at the factory was largely a period of setbacks for Ms. Quillen: She had lost $3 million in orders earlier in the year, and efforts to replace that work were fizzling. The bottom line was solid thanks to cost-cutting, but Ms. Quillen was not bringing new business in the door. The company was forced into a weeklong shutdown in July.', 'Since then, things have looked brighter. A customer Ms. Quillen suspected was on the verge of yanking millions in work reversed course. A second company she thought was giving her the runaround on a new part she proposed to make decided to order up the work after all: a job worth $1.2 million annually. “It’s crazy how quickly the tides can change,” Ms. Quillen wrote to me recently, as the latest federal jobs report showed a bump in factory employment. She was looking forward to hiring again, potentially good news in Trump Country.', 'THE TRADE My Journey Into the Labyrinth of Political Kidnapping By Jere Van Dyk 448 pp. PublicAffairs. $28.', 'In the old days — before Al Qaeda, before the Islamic State — the worst thing that could happen to a foreign correspondent was getting shot by a sniper or blown up by a land mine or mortar. But since 9/11, there has been a rise in the targeting of journalists for ransom or propaganda by violent nonstate actors. The Committee to Protect Journalists estimates that in the Middle East/North Africa region alone there have been more than 100 kidnappings since 2013. And that figure does not take into account non-press abductions — of businessmen, locals, engineers working for oil companies. In some parts of Latin America, for instance, kidnapping and ransom negotiation is so common that one former C.I.A. agent once said there is “effectively a functioning market with transparent prices, like a stock exchange.”', 'By the time he was kidnapped in 2008, Jere Van Dyk was already an Afghan expert — having made his first trip with his younger brother in 1973, returning in 1981 to report on the Soviet-Afghan war for The New York Times, and covering the region for CBS News after 9/11. He was held in captivity for 45 days by the Taliban before being released. “The Trade” is not about his imprisonment, but about his tenacious attempt to unravel precisely who ensnared him “like a fish onto a hook.” Van Dyk writes about his voyage into the depths of this opaque world from a well of sorrow, shame and regret. Never has a man been so burdened since Christian, the narrator of John Bunyan’s allegory “The Pilgrim’s Progress,” began his own arduous journey.', 'Van Dyk is a methodical and sensitive reporter, and his emotions are made vivid. Like many released hostages, he feels guilt for those who did not make it out alive. There is further remorse for those individuals — some he did not know — who worked hard to release him. He is wounded by the pain he caused his elderly father, sister, brother and other loved ones. He feels ashamed that CBS, which worked tirelessly to get his release, found him, only a few years later, to be a “remnant from the past,” and fired him.', '“The Trade” is about what happens in the “second life” you live after you have been released (here he quotes another American hostage, Steven Sotloff, who was captured and killed in Aleppo a few years ago). Unlike other hostages, Van Dyk does not return a wounded hero. CBS orders Van Dyk not to write or talk about his ordeal, supposedly to protect other correspondents in the field, but perhaps also to hide its own involvement in procuring the ransom money. The F.B.I. hovers menacingly.', 'Given the extensive Rolodex of Taliban contacts Van Dyk has gathered over the years, thanks to the “essential” Afghan tenet that “the only way forward was for one man to introduce me to another,” it’s inevitable that the F.B.I. tries to use him to glean information about them. Van Dyk is vulnerable and weakened, and clearly suffering from post-traumatic stress disorder. Initially, he trusts the agency to do the right thing. It’s a mistake. A creepy “therapist” tries to unravel his trauma, but she ends up being needier than her patient, as well as manipulative and controlling.', 'He is troubled by the knowledge of those who worked hard to save him to “prevent a second Daniel Pearl,” the Wall Street Journal reporter captured and killed by Pakistani terrorists in 2002. So he travels to Los Angeles to meet Pearl’s parents, and the journey proves yet another test of his bravery — “it was easier to cross the mountains into Pakistan than to come here.” Van Dyk repeatedly mentions his childhood — he was brought up in the Plymouth Brethren Christian Church in the American West — and there ensues an affecting scene in which the Pearls absolve him of his bad conscience for living while their son did not.', 'Along his quest to piece together what happened to him, Van Dyk meets with other families of former captives. He feels ruthlessly betrayed — by colleagues, and also, in a sense, by himself. (As an expert in Pashtun culture, he felt he knew the Taliban well enough to understand their ways and motives. How and why did this happen to him?) He feels “like Daniel in the Lion’s Den, to stand alone, for God, against the world, and to not be afraid,” he writes. “It would take me a lifetime to learn about physical courage, in that cell in the mountains, longer still to learn about moral courage.”', 'At the heart of this frustrating yet poignant book is the dangerous reality that there exists no solid, consistent global policy regarding ransom payments. We believe that the French, the Italians and the Japanese pay for the release of their hostages (though they all deny it), but even that is debatable. Before I left for Chechnya in 2000 for The Times of London, I was told by British government officials that if I were taken, they would not negotiate for me for fear of incentivizing further kidnapping. Privately, however, I was told that a wealthy Russian friend of my newspaper’s owner would “bail me out” if necessary. Under United States law, it is also illegal for anyone to pay a ransom to groups the State Department deems terrorist organizations, like the Islamic State.', 'The same held true for those of us working in Syria. As Frank Smyth, a security expert for the Committee to Protect Journalists, sums it up: “The U.S. and U.K. have policies of not paying ransoms to kidnappers,” whereas “many continental European governments have no such policy.”', 'Although many authorities denied it, after the release of several European journalists who were held captive with James Foley, the American hostage murdered in 2014 by the Islamic State along with Sotloff, different news sources reported that their governments apparently paid ransoms.', 'Van Dyk chronicles this phenomenon of underground hostage negotiations, which he calls “the work of ghosts,” and each of his successive trips back to the region to retrace his footsteps gets murkier, more convoluted. Reading “The Trade,” I was often stymied by the lengthy and ultimately baffling “cast of characters” to which he constantly refers. The list of Afghan and Pakistani individuals he encounters — drivers, “fixers,” office managers, friends of friends — grows so extended that the reader becomes increasingly confused. Chapters are devoted to interviews with various men who provide different versions of his story. It begins to make “Rashomon” seem lucid.', 'This, of course, is in many ways the point of the book: to demonstrate the lack of clear information, the false starts, the blinding confusion, the ill treatment of hostages and their families by officials. A bungled White House attempt to discover how to help families is a disaster.', '“We got no help from the government,” says Paula Somers, whose freelance-photographer son, Luke, was murdered in 2014 by Al Qaeda in Yemen. “In fact, it told us to be silent. I asked why and they told us not to tell other family members or close friends that Luke had been taken hostage.”', 'One begins to fear for Van Dyk’s sanity as he finds no balm for his pain. On his repeated trips to Afghanistan post-release, he is told countless times, “You’ve come back here? You’re insane.” Others urge him to end his quest. “My advice is that you leave immediately,” one contact warns him.', 'There is much to admire in Van Dyk’s character: his perseverance, the stark pioneer spirit honed in his youth, his desire to seek the truth. But, unlike the stricken Christian, Van Dyk does not reach his Celestial City. There is no redemption, no deliverance. He is courageous, but his book lacks any conclusion; we are left with no recommendations for a more cohesive policy toward governments and kidnappers.', 'There is no happy ending to Van Dyk’s tale. Perhaps, in the grim world of “The Trade,” there never will be.', 'RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — Private jets ferrying business titans from all over the globe began landing Monday in this sand-swept Saudi capital.', 'For the next several days, the world’s power center will shift from places like New York and London to this desert city for an event that many invitees are privately calling “Davos in the Desert.” Saudi Arabia’s 32-year-old crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, has summoned a Who’s Who from industry and politics to take part in a series of meetings, conversations and panels.', 'Among those making the pilgrimage are Stephen A. Schwarzman, co-founder of the private equity giant Blackstone Group; Masayoshi Son, founder of Japan’s SoftBank; the United States Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin; the venture capitalist Peter Thiel; Laurence D. Fink, founder of BlackRock; Leon Black of Apollo Group; Thomas J. Barrack Jr., the head of Colony NorthStar; and the entrepreneur Richard Branson. And that’s an abbreviated list. All told, the group of 3,500 invitees is estimated to control $22 trillion in assets.', 'A red carpet and dozens of emissaries for the royal family waited as guests began streaming into the Ritz-Carlton here, a palatial hotel originally planned as a palace for guests of the royal family and state dignitaries.', 'The gathering is an illustration of the new power and influence that Saudi Arabia wields in the business world. The goal is to demonstrate the kingdom’s transformation as it embarks on a massive experiment: to open up its economy and move away from being a nation that is almost entirely dependent on oil.', '“Saudi Arabia is moving aggressively to diversify its economy and implement important reforms,” Mr. Schwarzman told me, explaining why so much of the world’s business community has become intrigued by the kingdom as an economic and business partner.', 'Among those reforms is the recent decision to allow women to drive. One senior Saudi female executive told me that she had owned a Mercedes for years and couldn’t wait to learn how to drive it; like many women here, she has needed a driver to take her to and from work.', 'But to truly understand where the country’s new influence over the business community comes from, you simply need to follow the money.', 'With Saudi Arabia looking to invest the proceeds of its oil sales in new businesses and industries — it is planning an initial public offering for its state-owned oil company, Aramco, next year — the kingdom represents perhaps the largest honey pot in history. Virtually everyone here will have his or her pitch book at the ready and a hand out.', '“They think of the Saudis as big money,” said Ian Bremmer, president and founder of Eurasia Group, a political research and consulting firm. “Not smart, not dumb, but really big money that’s ready to move. And that attracts an extraordinary number of people who’d like a little piece.”', 'Wall Street’s biggest companies are sending swarms of bankers here, as are private equity firms and hedge funds. One executive described the gathering as “a ring-kissing exercise,” an effort by businesses to prove their loyalty as the country’s Public Investment Fund — which is the formal sponsor of the event — begins to dole out hundreds of billions of dollars as part of its diversification plan, known as Vision 2030.', 'Mr. Schwarzman’s Blackstone and Mr. Son’s SoftBank have so far been the biggest beneficiaries of Saudi Arabia’s largess. This year, the country committed $20 billion to a new Blackstone fund to be used, in part, to fix aging infrastructure in the United States. And it gave $45 billion to Mr. Son’s SoftBank Vision Fund, the largest technology fund in the world.', 'It has already made investments in WeWork, SoFi and Fanatics, and is negotiating an investment in Uber. Speaking of Uber, Travis Kalanick, its former chief executive and a current board member, is expected here; the Saudis invested $3.5 billion directly in Uber last year.', 'A number of participants, speaking anonymously so as not to offend their hosts, grumbled about what they described as having to trek to the desert to get their picture taken. Others said attendance was mandatory because the kingdom was a client. One executive, unprompted, said bankers would be taking selfies to put in pitch books for future business in Saudi Arabia.', 'Journalists from around the world are also here at the conference. (I’m among the many journalists interviewing executives and officials on panels.)', 'Topic A in the hallways is the initial public offering for Aramco. There have been reports recently that the I.P.O. might be delayed or that the government might sell a stake in the company to the Chinese, either as an alternative to the public offering or as a way to help establish a valuation.', 'The kingdom is said to be seeking a valuation of $2 trillion for Aramco, which would make it the largest company in the world — and give the government enough money to pursue its diversification strategy. But some investors and analysts, who have yet to see any of Aramco’s financials, have warned that such a valuation is far too high.', 'At stake is Saudi Arabia’s ability to pay for its transformation. And for many of the attendees, the kingdom’s ability to pay huge fees to Wall Street also hangs in the balance. The fees from the I.P.O. offering are estimated to be worth as much $1 billion, which would make it the biggest payday ever for an offering. With questions still lingering about where the I.P.O will be listed, it is notable that Thomas W. Farley, the president of the New York Stock Exchange, and Xavier Rolet, the chief executive of the London Stock Exchange, are both scheduled to attend.', 'In an interview over the weekend, Aramco’s chief executive, Amin H. Nasser, insisted the I.P.O. was still on track for next year.', '“We have always said that we will be listing in 2018 and, to be more specific, in the second half of 2018,” he said. “However, I think journalists and writers — they are expecting more and more information, and we are governed by, you know, certain rules with regard to talking about the I.P.O. and all of that.”', 'When Aramco will go public and at what price will most likely be the chatter of the week, if not a full-fledged parlor game, but the real question, Mr. Bremmer said, “is what anyone can learn about the internal dynamics of the royal family?”', 'There are continuing questions about whether the kingdom’s investments in new industries and businesses will be able to produce the kind of returns that oil has for generations here.', 'And just as important, there are questions about whether the diversification strategy can create enough jobs to keep the population employed and expand the domestic economy.', '“How much support is there for the aggressive across-the-board reforms of Vision 2030?” Mr. Bremmer asked. “Do attendees come away with any more confidence that Saudi isn’t only on the right track but that they can execute on it? We shall see.”', 'The answer will have a huge impact on the future of this country — and will be worth a lot of money.', 'IBM reported revenue growth for the first time in five and a half years on Thursday, ending a streak of 22 consecutive quarters of shrinking sales.', 'The gain was modest — revenue rose by 4 percent — and one quarter does not make a trend. The quarterly result will also not erase the doubts of industry analysts who are skeptical that a genuine turnaround is underway at IBM.', 'But the company’s fourth-quarter report is an encouraging sign that IBM’s financial performance is stabilizing, and perhaps the transformation effort led by Virginia M. Rometty, the chief executive, is gaining ground. The company’s long run of slipping revenue began shortly after Ms. Rometty took over in 2012.', 'The corporate technology giant is remaking itself and investing heavily in new businesses like cloud computing, data analytics and artificial intelligence. The litmus test of success will be when those new units grow large enough to more than offset the steady erosion of its traditional hardware and software products, delivering revenue growth consistently.', 'In a statement, Ms. Rometty noted the strong growth in the new businesses, which IBM collectively calls “strategic imperatives” and now represent 46 percent of the company’s revenue. “We are pleased with our overall revenue growth in the quarter,” she said. Company executives said they expected revenue growth to continue throughout 2018.', 'In after-hours trading, IBM shares fell 3.5 percent. The company’s shares had risen nearly 10 percent this year, and some investors were apparently expecting stronger results.', 'Like other large international corporations, IBM has kept some of its global profits off its domestic books to avoid the previous 35 percent federal corporate tax rate. Under the new tax law, companies get a one-time repatriation of those profits at tax rates ranging from 8 percent to 15.5 percent.', 'To benefit from the program, IBM took a $5.5 billion charge against profits to pay those taxes. But it did not immediately say how many billions of dollars would be repatriated, or what the company plans to do with the money.', 'IBM reported revenue of $22.5 billion in the fourth quarter of 2017, surpassing the average estimate of analysts of $22.05 billion, as compiled by Thomson Reuters.', 'Revenue was helped by the weakness of the dollar, since most of IBM’s sales are outside the United States. Excluding the currency gain, the company’s sales rose 1 percent.', 'IBM reported net loss for the quarter of $1.05 billion, because of the $5.5 billion charge.', 'The company’s operating earnings per share were $5.18, an 8 percent increase and slightly above the consensus Wall Street estimate of $5.17 a share.', 'IBM got a lift in the quarter from strong sales of a new line of mainframe computers. Revenue from its systems division, which includes mainframes, rose 32 percent to $3.3 billion.', 'The company’s new businesses grew 11 percent to $36.5 billion over the full year, IBM said, and the cloud business alone grew by 24 percent.', 'But its big technology consulting and services business did not grow in the quarter, and declined slightly without the currency gains in the quarter.', 'The announcement by American Airlines seemed to hark to another era: The airline would be adding shuttle service between New York and Chicago this spring — and serving free beer and wine, no less.', 'But the American shuttle is a “shuttle” in only the narrowest definition: It will adhere to a regular, frequent schedule.', 'In the glory days of air shuttles, a few decades ago, shuttles were more freewheeling affairs. Passengers could buy their tickets onboard, and operators kept extra planes on standby so every person who showed up could be accommodated. There was just one class on the planes — no first class or economy — and meals were served to everyone on many of the flights, even if the plane was in the air for under an hour.', 'Today, the seating is more finite — a reservation is probably a good idea. Snacks are available to everyone, but full meals are usually offered only to first-class passengers on flights between New York and Chicago. And American acknowledged that while its new shuttle service would translate to more round trips between La Guardia Airport and Chicago each day, some flights would use smaller planes, so overall capacity on the route would not change.', 'Robert W. Mann Jr., an aviation consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y., said the new American service was “an aspirational thing, it’s a grab for the past.”', 'But like its predecessors, the new service is targeted at business travelers. “These were unique opportunities,” Mr. Mann said, “to do something that was much more generous than you would typically get.”', 'Eastern Air Lines was the first to operate air shuttles, beginning in 1961, with service every other hour from La Guardia to Washington and Boston. Over the next four decades or so, shuttle services increased in frequency and, crucially, offered unlimited capacity on every departure.', 'If, for example, 100 people could fit on the plane at the gate in New York for the 8 a.m. departure to Boston but 101 passengers showed up, a second plane would be rolled out. “It’s a very expensive proposition,” Mr. Mann said, because airlines had to have planes and crews on standby. (Frequently, though, those standby aircraft never left the ground.)', 'Airlines, however, still try to distinguish their shuttle flights to appeal to business travelers. “The word ‘shuttle’ has a really distinct meaning to our most frequent business travelers,” said Vasu Raja, the vice president for network and schedule planning at American Airlines.', 'American’s shuttles to Boston and Washington still follow a more consistent schedule than flights on other routes and tend to leave from the same gate. Passengers can also check in for the flights closer to departure time. Because of that consistency, Mr. Raja said, travelers “can be on autopilot” while going through the airport.', 'He said the company had decided to expand its shuttle in response to customer demand. Chicago is a particularly strong market for business travel, he said, and the airline’s frequent fliers in New York have long wanted the shuttle to fly there.', 'Delta Air Lines is the only other airline that offers shuttle service. Like American, it operates out of La Guardia with flights to Boston, Washington and Chicago.', 'The Delta shuttle caters to business travelers with similar in-flight amenities and check-in rules, and has dedicated security lanes at La Guardia. The schedule is aimed at accommodating travelers who want to fly round-trip in one day.', '“Those shuttle markets are designed for a customer to leave in the morning and come back in the afternoon or evening,” said Henry Kuykendall, Delta’s senior vice president for Northeast airport operations. “Other markets you have to overnight.”', 'When Eastern Air Lines sold its shuttle routes to Donald J. Trump in 1989, the real estate mogul doubled down on the idea of luxury service, installing faux marble counters in the lavatories and chrome-plated seatbelt buckles embossed with the airline’s logo on the rebranded planes. Flight attendants wore faux pearls and served a cold meal and sometimes as many as two rounds of drinks on the 40-minute flights to Washington.', 'The company even had a concierge service during the week. Passengers could drop off their dry cleaning before departing in the morning and have it waiting for them when they returned in the evening. The concierge would even arrange a dinner reservation.', 'The Trump Shuttle was sold a few years later to USAir Group, which operated it as a separate entity for five years before folding it into US Airways. The shuttle moved to American Airlines when the two carriers merged in 2013. Delta acquired its early shuttle routes to Boston and Washington from Pan Am in 1991.', 'While flying is the fastest way to get to Chicago from the East Coast, shuttle flights face stiffer competition from Amtrak in the Boston-New York-Washington corridor. Frequent travelers tend to gravitate to one mode of transportation over another, and fans of the air shuttle are more than happy to make a case for their preferred way to travel.', '“I definitely take the shuttle more than I take the train,” said Justin Nelson, a co-founder and the president of the National L.G.B.T. Chamber of Commerce. “I do both, but I definitely prefer the shuttle.” He lives and works in Washington, but has to travel to New York about twice a month and, he said, most often takes the American shuttle.', '“I’m an American Airlines frequent flier, and part of that is just loyalty and doing good by companies that are doing good by you,” Mr. Nelson said. “I have found that the airlines fight hard for your business. They want to provide a service, and they’re by no means perfect, but they’re fighting for you as a customer.”', 'He said he found the service on Amtrak to be more impersonal. He also likes that he can accrue frequent flier miles on the shuttle that apply to the airline’s whole network. In addition, he said, American and Delta both support Mr. Nelson’s organization.', 'Eric Schwartz, the president and chief executive of Atavis Jet, a private plane charter company, also said he preferred to fly in the Northeast. “The shuttle is more efficient for my needs,” he said.', 'Mr. Schwartz lives in New York and frequently flies Delta to Washington for business or to visit family. “I can get door to door from Manhattan to downtown D.C. in two hours,” he said, adding that that’s faster than the train.', '“The fact that Amtrak calls Acela a ‘high-speed’ train is silly to me,” Mr. Schwartz said. “It’s slow, it’s lumbering, you’re stopping every 20 minutes or so in little towns that don’t warrant high-speed service.”', 'Airlines and railroads have gone toe to toe to win over customers in the Northeast corridor for decades, boasting of their own unique efficiencies. Amtrak stresses how train stations are more centrally located than airports.', 'But many shuttle fans prefer the speed of flying over taking the train.', 'Mr. Schwartz said one ad he saw more than a decade ago really drove the point home.', '“I remember maybe 10 to 15 years ago when Amtrak was really trying to push Acela,” he recalled, “there was an advertising war on the tops of taxicabs, and Delta had one that said: ‘Planes are faster than trains. Period.’ That stuck with me.”', 'WASHINGTON — The Federal Communications Commission voted on Thursday to allow a single company to own a newspaper and television and radio stations in the same town, reversing a decades-old rule aimed at preventing any individual or company from having too much power over local coverage.', 'The Republican-led F.C.C. eliminated the restrictions, known as a media cross-ownership ban, in a 3-to-2 vote along party lines. As part of the vote, the agency also increased the number of television stations a company could own in a local market. A company will more easily be able to own two of the four largest stations in a market, instead of only one.', 'The vote was the latest action in a deregulatory blitz at the agency cheered on by media, broadband and cable corporations, but opposed by many Democrats and consumer advocates, who say Americans will be hurt from greater consolidation in those industries.', 'In April, the agency relaxed other limits on television ownership. Shortly after,  Sinclair Broadcast Group reached a deal with Tribune Media for a $3.9 billion merger that would allow Sinclair to reach 70 percent of American households. Some lawmakers have called for an investigation into the relationship between the agency’s chairman, Ajit Pai, and Sinclair.', 'Mr. Pai, who was appointed by President Trump, has said the media ownership rules — including the cross-ownership ban between newspapers and television and radio stations — was outdated. He said most Americans get their news from a variety of sources and, most prominent among them, online platforms like Facebook and Google.', 'Local media organizations, he has argued, would have a greater shot at competing against those internet giants by combining resources in local markets.', '“It’s a simple proposition: The media ownership regulations of 2017 should match the media marketplace of 2017,” Mr. Pai said on Thursday. “That’s the proposition the F.C.C. vindicates today — nothing more, nothing less. And it’s about time.”', 'Democrats on the commission said that rolling back the rules would hurt people who relied on local stations for news coverage.', '“During the first 10 months of 2017, the F.C.C. majority has given the green light to more than a dozen actions that are a direct attack on consumers and small businesses,” said Mignon Clyburn, a Democratic commissioner, who voted against the orders. “And most Americans are unaware that the agency established to protect the public interest has traded in that role for the chance to grant the wish lists of billion-dollar companies.”', 'While local news audience numbers have declined in recent years, about 57 percent of Americans get most of their news from television, with local news leading cable outlets and national broadcasts, according to the Pew Research Center.', 'Public interest groups fear major corporations like Sinclair or CBS would grow more powerful through the relaxation of rules. Private equity investors who have purchased television stations and newspapers to flip them for a profit are also expected to take advantage of the changes.', '“Our media ownership numbers are already dismally low,” said Carmen Scurato, the director for the National Hispanic Media Coalition, a nonprofit that promotes greater diversity in media. “These actions on Thursday shut out our voices.”', 'Some academics are skeptical that the relaxation in rules will result in more robust local news coverage, as Mr. Pai envisions.', 'There is little evidence that mergers in local media have resulted in more jobs and stronger journalism, said Victor Pickard, a professor at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania. Instead, the relaxation of rules could result in business models like that of Sinclair, which sends programming created from its station in Washington to be run at stations across the nation, critics of the changes have said.', '“Media concentration has been a concern since the 1940s, and this is a major reversal,” Mr. Pickard said. He added that internet platforms did not create news content on their own so were not real competition to broadcast journalism.', '“The fact that media content is coming from many sources, including the internet, isn’t evidence of real competition because that isn’t where actual journalism is coming from,” Mr. Pickard said.', 'Mr. Pai’s actions have also drawn strong criticism from Democratic lawmakers and some conservative media companies like Newsmax. Representatives Frank Pallone Jr. of New Jersey and Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland called on the inspector general of the F.C.C. this week to investigate Mr. Pai’s relationship with Sinclair to see if he was giving favors to the company he regulates. This week 13 senators called on Mr. Pai to recuse himself from any actions related to media ownership because of concerns of ties to Sinclair.', 'Mr. Pai has rebutted the claims of coordination with Sinclair.', 'It is unclear who would first take advantage of the new rules. But a company like Sinclair could benefit from the elimination of a rule that prevents one entity from owning two top stations in a local market. Through its Tribune deal, Sinclair would have about 10 markets with more than one of the four top stations. And with the new rules, it may not have to divest those stations, some analysts say.', 'The National Association of Broadcasters, the lobbying group for television and radio broadcast station and network owners, said the rules would also help small, independent television owners, who have gone in to lobby Mr. Pai to support the changes.', '“The F.C.C.’s past decisions retaining the local ownership rules depended upon the agency closing its eyes and covering its ears to avoid recognizing what is clear to any consumer with a TV remote or a smartphone — that local broadcast stations and newspapers do not exist in a vacuum and that broadcasters and newspaper owners must compete with myriad other outlets for viewers, listeners, readers and advertisers,” the group said in a blog post.', 'Broadcom officially withdrew a $117 billion takeover bid for its rival chip maker Qualcomm on Wednesday, two days after President Trump issued an extraordinary order to block the acquisition effort on national security grounds.', 'In a statement, Broadcom said that it would comply with Mr. Trump’s order, formally abandoning what would have been the biggest takeover in the history of the technology industry. Broadcom has nevertheless said it will continue with plans to move its legal headquarters from Singapore to the United States.', '“Broadcom’s board of directors and management team sincerely appreciate the significant support we received from the Qualcomm and Broadcom stockholders throughout this process,” Broadcom said.', 'Mr. Trump issued his order after a government panel tasked with reviewing the national security implications for business deals disclosed serious concerns about the bid. The panel’s finding was in keeping with the misgivings within the White House about China’s gaining access to important technologies like the nascent wireless standard known as 5G.', 'The move by Mr. Trump was a rare intervention by a president, but under his administration, multiple deals have been quashed after a review by the panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, popularly known as Cfius. Those prospective deals have included the sale of Moneygram to a unit of the Chinese e-commerce giant Alibaba, and an agreement involving Lattice Semiconductor and an investment firm with reported ties to the Chinese government.', 'Mr. Trump acted despite efforts by Broadcom and its chief executive, Hock Tan, to win over the White House, even before the hostile takeover bid was announced.', 'Mr. Tan appeared alongside Mr. Trump in November, promising to move Broadcom’s headquarters to the United States. At one point, the company also offered to raise its offer for Qualcomm, and when Cfius first raised concerns about the deal, Broadcom sent a letter to lawmakers promising it would not slow research and development in 5G networking technology if the merger was approved.', 'Had it gone through, the deal would have had an outsize impact on consumers around the world. The two companies supply the majority of chips used in smartphones, and Qualcomm in particular has a heavy stake in 5G, which promises much faster wireless download speeds.', 'The Broadcom deal was blocked also as the Trump administration has taken a much harder stance on trade, imposing stiff new tariffs on imported steel and aluminum.', 'Broadcom unveiled its bid for Qualcomm, based in San Diego, in November, but has consistently been rebuffed. Qualcomm said that Broadcom was fundamentally underestimating the company’s value.', 'In February, as the rancor between the companies grew, Qualcomm increased the amount it was offering to buy NXP Semiconductors, another large chip maker. Broadcom, which had urged Qualcomm not to do so, then responded by reducing its offer for Qualcomm.', 'Broadcom had said its bid for Qualcomm should not have been subject to Cfius review because of its plans to move its headquarters to the United States. Nevertheless, Qualcomm asked regulators to review the takeover effort.', 'The hotel business has been a good one in recent years, as the economy has gathered strength. But there’s one area that’s been lagging — hosting corporate meeting and conferences.', 'Now, the hotel industry is hoping that lower corporate taxes will finally change that.', '“The corporate and groups market has been sluggish and hasn’t responded as well to the economic growth,” said Lorraine Sileo, senior vice president for research at Phocuswright, a travel market research firm. “There’s definitely a lot of optimism that this is just a segment that’s waiting to improve and that gains are expected.”', 'Back in November, executives at both Marriott International and Hilton Worldwide expressed hope that the proposed corporate tax cuts would prompt companies to spend more at hotels. The tax bill was signed in December, and by February, when the two executives spoke with investors about their fourth-quarter earnings, they said there were indications that the tide had begun to turn.', 'Hilton’s chief executive, Chris Nassetta, said business travel demand was better than expected, and Marriott’s chief executive, Arne M. Sorenson, characterized the mood in corporate America post-tax reform as optimistic.', 'TravelClick, which analyzes booking activity at 50,000 hotels, found that growth in overall bookings grew by 1.3 percent in February and 1.5 percent in March, year over year — meaningful gains, according to that company’s senior industry analyst, John Hach.', '“What we’re seeing is a consistent uptick in activity in organic growth that we hadn’t witnessed before the tax cut,” he said. For the second half of 2018, the pace of group bookings is picking up, as well as business trips over all, he said. “That was not existent prior to tax reform.”', 'Still, some hotel industry analysts were not so quick to say that the corporate tax cuts would result in strong growth in the corporate meeting business.', '“It’s still too early to say, ‘Let’s loosen the purse strings,’” said Michael Bellisario, senior research analyst at Robert W. Baird & Company. He noted that hotels had been raising prices as demand for their rooms had increased. “C.E.O.s and C.F.O.s are saying, ‘Watch your budgets.’”', 'But other analysts were more optimistic, saying the full impact of the tax cuts might not be visible just yet. “It’s so fresh, we don’t have a lot to go on in terms of pure results,” said Scott Berman, United States hospitality and leisure practice leader at the accounting firm PwC. “I just think everybody’s trying to digest it.”', 'Indeed, Ms. Sileo, of Phocuswright, said the timeline of corporate travel budgets and contracts could be holding back some additional demand. “Budgets for meetings, for group travel and for corporate travel were set in 2017,” she said. “So the impact of the tax legislation in 2018 might not even hit until they budget for 2019.”', 'Once corporate hotel bookings return in strong numbers, they should have staying power, since bookings for large meetings are made months, if not years, in advance.', 'But some hotel industry experts were skeptical that the tax cuts should get much credit, given the overall strength of the hotel industry in the United States.', 'Bjorn Hanson, a professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality at New York University, estimated that RevPAR, a common hotel industry metric that is short for “revenue per available room,” would gain only 0.3 percent this year from the tax cuts.', 'And Mike McCormick, executive director of the Global Business Travel Association, said, “I don’t think we have enough data to know whether this is short term, or whether this will be sustained.”', 'He noted a drop in international visitors, blaming a shift toward nationalism. “There are a lot of other factors at play here,” he said. “The impact that the administration’s policies have had on the group and meeting business is not a surprise for us.”', 'Another issue is that booking growth is running out of room — literally. “We’ve had 90-plus months of occupancy growth,” Mr. Berman, of PwC, pointed out, and hotels in big cities routinely sell out.', 'Hotels have been able to raise their rates in these markets, but the flip side to higher profits is the risk of dissuading future bookings, especially for large room-block commitments as the law of supply and demand kicks in. “That’s where it becomes a little tricky,” Mr. Berman said.', 'Even though companies will have lower effective tax rates, Steven M. Rosenthal, a senior fellow at the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, said provisions in the new law curtailing deductions for business entertainment expenses could dampen any positive effect.', '“What the bill gave with extra stimulus in the one hand could be pulled back a bit by limiting business expenses on the other hand,” he said. “The jury is out as to whether lower-taxed corporate profits will lead to more investments in the business, including travel and facilitating meetings and the like.”']