['Citigroup is setting restrictions on the sale of firearms by its business customers, making it the first Wall Street bank to take a stance in the divisive nationwide gun control debate.', 'The new policy, announced Thursday, prohibits the sale of firearms to customers who have not passed a background check or who are younger than 21. It also bars the sale of bump stocks and high-capacity magazines. It would apply to clients who offer credit cards backed by Citigroup or borrow money, use banking services or raise capital through the company.', 'The rules, which the company described as “common-sense measures,” echo similar restrictions established by some major retailers, like Walmart. But they also represent the boldest such move to emerge from the banking sector.', 'Since the deadly school shooting in Parkland, Fla., last month, renewed calls for remedies to firearms violence have led to sweeping consumer boycotts and unprecedented moves by corporate America to distance itself from the powerful gun lobby.', 'But federal lawmakers have taken limited action, and President Trump quickly abandoned a promise to pursue gun control measures, instead promoting proposals backed by the National Rifle Association to arm teachers.', 'The financial services and investment community was even less engaged, staying mostly quiet on suggestions that it wield its considerable influence over gun merchants to encourage firearms-related changes.', 'Citigroup’s gun policy has “been a while coming,” its chief executive, Michael L. Corbat, told The New York Times Thursday. Mr. Corbat, who called himself “an avid outdoorsman and responsible gun owner,” acknowledged that “some will find our policy too strict while others will find it too lenient.”', '“We don’t pretend that these answers are perfect, but as we looked at the things we thought we could influence, we felt that, working with our clients, we could make a difference,” he said. “Banks serve a societal purpose — we believe our investors want us to do this and be responsible corporate citizens.”', 'Citigroup said it had begun to inform existing small business and credit card clients and commercial and institutional partners of its plan and would screen future partners using the new requirements.', 'The bank said it has few gun manufacturing companies as clients, but those it does work with will be asked to provide details about their product and distribution networks.', 'If business customers decline Citigroup’s restrictions, the bank said it would work with them to “transition their business away.” The company declined to name clients or describe the extent of affected partnerships but said that “real revenue is at risk” if relationships fall through and customers protest. Some of Citigroup’s clients, like Walmart, already adhere to the new policies.', 'Citigroup said it did not have the technology nor the legal ability to monitor gun purchases at the payment-processing level, but said that the industry was discussing the possibility.', 'Edward Skyler, an executive vice president at Citigroup who helped craft the policy, wrote in a blog post that the company’s announcement “will invite passion on both sides.” But he stressed that the policies were “not centered on an ideological mission to rid the world of firearms.”', 'Following various mass shootings, “we have waited for our grief to turn into action and see our nation adopt common-sense measures that would help prevent firearms from getting into the wrong hands,” he wrote. “That action has sadly never come and as the weeks pass from the most recent mass shooting, it appears we remain in the same cycle of tragedy and inaction.”', 'The company said it would not enforce a specific deadline and instead hoped to have all of its clients on board with the gun restrictions within a few months. Members of its corporate citizenship group, which also monitors whether clients engaged in coal mining and oil drilling are adhering to Citigroup’s environmental standards, will check in regularly on partners’ gun-selling procedures, the company said.', 'The Citigroup board was supportive of the decision. Mr. Corbat said that, in many recent discussions about the new policy, “there hasn’t been a consensus, but we also haven’t come to this decision in a vacuum.”', 'Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase, U.S. Bank and Bank of America declined to comment on whether they had similar plans in the works.', 'Alan Elias, a spokesman for Wells Fargo, said in a statement that “any solutions on how to address this epidemic will be complicated.”', '“This is why our company believes the best way to make progress on these issues is through the political and legislative process,” he said. “We are engaging our customers that legally manufacture firearms and other stakeholders on what we can do together to promote better gun safety for our communities.”', 'Diane Zappas, a spokeswoman for PNC Financial Services Group, said that the company, which is “continuing to consider these issues,” had discouraged new loans to gun manufacturers since 2013 and had “very limited exposure” to clients that manufacture AR-15-style rifles like the kind used in the Parkland shooting.', 'Wall Street is deeply tied to the sprawling, opaque gun industry through pension funds that buy into public gun companies, private equity firms with firearms holdings and financial institutions that back sizable loans to handgun and rifle manufacturers.', 'In recent weeks, both Bank of America and the asset manager BlackRock said they had reached out to firearms manufacturers and distributors to ask about their responses to mass shootings, and strategies to stop them.', 'American Outdoor Brands, the parent company of the Smith & Wesson gun brand, replied to BlackRock in a public letter earlier this month, saying that it respects the national debate about gun safety and shares “the nation’s grief” over the Parkland killings and “the desire to make our communities safer.”', 'But American Outdoor, whose stock price has been more than halved since the 2016 election, stressed that “the solution is not to take a politically motivated action” that “results in no increase in public safety.”', 'Last month, the First National Bank of Omaha, which said it would not renew a contract with the National Rifle Association to issue an N.R.A.-branded Visa card, led a quick succession of companies to cut ties with the trade group.', 'The N.R.A. did not respond to requests for comment.', 'YouTube said this week that it would start removing videos next month that promote the sale or manufacture of firearms and accessories, especially those that allow simulated automatic firing, like bump stocks.', 'On March 12, the gun manufacturer Sturm Ruger addressed shareholder concerns in a letter that promised to continue manufacturing and selling semiautomatic firearms, or what the industry refers to as modern sporting rifles.', 'In the letter, the company said that “succumbing to political pressure to do what is expedient” would fly “in the face of our fiduciary responsibility as stewards of the company for the benefit of shareholders.”', 'DAVOS, Switzerland — One could get the feeling that President Trump might not be set for a rousing welcome when he arrives in this Swiss Alps resort this week to address the annual gathering of the World Economic Forum.', 'The forum, a pilgrimage for the wealthy and powerful, is an unabashed champion of globalization. It advocates ceaselessly for the notion that every problem — from climate change to joblessness to terrorism to cybersecurity — requires international cooperation and multilateral solutions.', 'Mr. Trump’s derisive rejection of such ideas as the woolly-headed notions of the global elite is central to his identity. He used his inaugural address a year ago to declare the dawning of a new “America First” era. He has since pulled the United States out of a sprawling Pacific trade deal, while renouncing American participation in the Paris climate accord. He has spurned the modern sensitivities to race and gender.', 'While many here are poised to recoil at Mr. Trump’s arrival — diplomats, heads of state and members of human rights organizations — much of the moneyed elite who pay the bills for many Davos festivities are willing to overlook what they portray as the American president’s rhetorical foibles in favor of focusing on the additional wealth he has delivered to their coffers.', 'Among banking chiefs, hedge fund managers, private equity overseers and others who make their living managing vast piles of money, Mr. Trump is the rare politician who has made good on his words, having slashed corporate taxes and ditched regulations they view as anti-business. However they publicly greet Mr. Trump, they are happy with key ways in which he has wielded his power.', '“If you take away Trump’s Twitter ridiculousness, it’s actually been a pretty good year for the business community,” said Raymond Nolte, a managing partner at SkyBridge Capital, a New York-based hedge fund that manages more than $10.7 billion in assets. “He’s basically accomplished major reform.”', 'Though many economists assert that the American economic expansion, now into its ninth year, owes much to federal spending unleashed by the Obama administration, the story within the finance community is that Mr. Trump’s deregulatory proclivities combined with his $1.5 trillion tax cuts will greatly juice growth.', 'The business elite are not crazy about Mr. Trump’s exchange of nuclear threats with the North Korean dictator Kim Jong-un. They are worried about the American president’s threats to blow up the North American Free Trade Agreement while undermining support for the World Trade Organization, the linchpin of the global, rules-based mode of international commerce.', 'But they like what Mr. Trump has meant for the raging American stock market and, more broadly, enhanced forecasts of global economic growth.', '“A lot of it is perception,” Mr. Nolte said. “It’s had psychological impact with the business community, persuading companies to invest and hire.”', 'Far from an exclusively American view, business leaders from around the world appear to bring this sort of thinking to bear as they prepare for Mr. Trump’s appearance in Davos, where he is expected to speak on Friday.', '“His visit will get a lukewarm reception because of his America First policies,” said Ralph Hamers, chief executive officer of ING Group, the Netherlands-based global bank. “But for a lot of companies, his policies have been very supportive. That’s why you see the markets doing well.”', 'The official agenda of Davos is full of earnest discussions of inequality, human rights, gender equality and the rise of automation as a threat to jobs. In these sorts of venues, Mr. Trump is a man whose words and deeds evoke great consternation.', 'But the ballroom of every surrounding hotel is full of parties paid for by investment houses and global consulting companies. Aged Bordeaux and single malt whiskey flow freely while clients are entertained. In these quarters, Mr. Trump is a subject discussed with care, yet with palpable appreciation.', 'Many business leaders decline to discuss Mr. Trump on the record, cognizant that his very name is deeply intertwined with debates over acceptable public behavior. None of these are subjects that companies are eager to link to their brands.', '“You’re going to see very bifurcated points of view,” said Jeff Schumacher, founder and chief executive officer of BCG Digital Ventures, a venture capital investment arm of Boston Consulting Group, the global consulting company. “Business leaders are excited about some of the things that have been pro-business, but on climate change and geopolitical things, they are not so happy.”', 'Mr. Schumacher prefers to accentuate the positive.', '“The tax law will be very advantageous to us, and I think you’ll see it spawn a lot of growth,” he said. “For us, it’s playing right into the strength of what we do.”', 'One can find businesspeople in Davos who are openly aghast at Mr. Trump’s participation, especially those from Africa — a continent the American president appeared to write off with a vulgar slur as he reportedly urged that Americans tilt their immigration policy toward welcoming more Norwegians.', '“As global leader, the United States has lost a lot of recognition, purely because of the current leadership,” said Joel Motsweng Baepi, director of governance, regulatory and corporate affairs in the South African office of Old Mutual, the global insurance company. “His is just dumb bigotry. Unfortunately, it’s dumb bigotry you cannot ignore because it comes from the White House.”', 'Mark Malloch-Brown, a former United Nations official who now chairs the Business and Sustainable Development Commission in Britain, suggested that the reaction to Mr. Trump in Davos would be both muted and concerned.', '“The delegates themselves are likely to be polite to a fault and enthusiastic about the U.S. stock market performance, but will have difficulty concealing their anxiety about an erratic protection of American power in the world and his own psychological stability,” Mr. Malloch-Brown said.', 'But people who measure value with money have different views.', 'As president of BusinessEurope, a leading European industrial organization, Emma Marcegaglia fears Mr. Trump’s threats to tear up major trade agreements. As co-chief executive officer of Marcegaglia, a major global steel processor, she frets that Mr. Trump has outlined plans to cite national security concerns as a reason to protect American steel makers with tariffs on imports.', 'But ask her about markets and investment, and Ms. Marcegaglia has kind words for Mr. Trump. “A lot businessmen think his tax reform is fine — the idea that through lowering the tax rate you can attract investment is something that makes sense,” she said.', 'Longtime attendees of the World Economic Forum are prone to discuss — and sometimes lampoon — the values of so-called Davos Man (and Woman), the quintessential attendee who is at once deeply disturbed by the plight of Syrian refugees, at pains to address climate change and perpetually able to extract new fortune from every situation.', 'For that crowd, Mr. Trump effectively forces a choice. In action and words, he is anathema to the foundational ideals of the forum. He is also making rich people richer, and many of them are here.', '“They are now licking their lips,” said Joseph Stiglitz, the Nobel laureate economist. “Davos Man has been able to overlook Trump’s ‘America First’ rhetoric, his anti-climate-change action, his protectionism, nativism, racism, bigotry, narcissism, misogyny, for the lucre that seems to be the true motivating force behind Davos Man.”', 'H. Wayne Huizenga, the entrepreneur who expanded Blockbuster video and AutoNation into vast enterprises and owned three South Florida sports teams, died on Thursday night at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 80.', 'Bob Henninger, executive vice president of Huizenga Holdings, Mr. Huizenga’s investment vehicle, confirmed the death, saying Mr. Huizenga had long been treated for cancer.', 'Mr. Huizenga (pronounced HIGH-zing-ah) achieved his first success with the sanitation company Waste Management, which traced its origins to a garbage route he personally drove in 1962.', 'At the time, he would begin his days before dawn and, once he finished hauling garbage to the dump, would shower and spend the rest of the day meeting with business owners and homeowners in an effort to win contracts.', 'His small company merged with three Chicago-area concerns to create Waste Management in 1968. The company went public three years later and promptly embarked on a buying spree, purchasing 90 garbage truck companies within a year.', 'Less heartier characters might have blanched at the work environment, but Mr. Huizenga found it invigorating. His eldest son, Wayne Jr., recalled that as a child he spent summers working in landfills for his father.', '“It was a smell I grew to love,” the younger Mr. Huizenga said in an interview on Friday. “My dad would say, ‘It smells like money to me, son.’ ”', 'The company was worth several billion by the time Mr. Huizenga stepped back from his active role in 1984.', 'While it was his partner, Dean Buntrock, who is credited with the vision for a waste company with a national footprint, Mr. Huizenga was quick to internalize the lessons of that success. He saw great opportunity in businesses, like garbage hauling, that had regular customers and recurring revenue but were fragmented and undercapitalized, suggesting that consolidation could yield great returns.', 'Despite rarely watching movies himself, he recognized such an opportunity when he visited an obscure Chicago video store called Blockbuster in 1987. Traditional video stores were shoestring operations with minuscule offerings and a whiff of seediness. But Blockbuster was clean and inviting, and the selections seemed limitless.', 'He bought into the chain in 1987, when it claimed fewer than 20 stores, and helped expand it to more than 3,500 locations within seven years.', 'Wayne Huizenga Jr., who opened some of the first stores the company set up after the investment, recalled that his father had bought three centrally located liquor stores in South Florida and completely renovated them in the familiar Blockbuster image, with its bright lighting and large, open spaces.', 'Seeking to be family-friendly, the chain refused to stock films rated NC-17 (not to mention X). “Parents would thank you for not having a section their children can’t go,” Wayne Jr. said.', 'As Blockbuster’s prominence — and stock price — rose, Mr. Huizenga became something of a folk hero in South Florida, where, it sometimes seemed, much of the community was sharing in his wealth. Strangers would approach him to ask about the business and reveal that they owned stock.', 'When he decided to sell to Viacom for $8.4 billion in 1994, said Mr. Henninger, Mr. Huizenga still loved the business but felt he had no choice because of his obligation to shareholders.', 'By the mid-1990s, he had gained a legendary reputation among investors that sometimes outstripped his ability to deliver. The stock of companies he acquired or took public would balloon, largely on the basis of his involvement.', '“I often heard him say, ‘That stock is running fast,’ ” the younger Mr. Huizenga said. “I think that put a lot of pressure on him.”', 'The share price of one of those companies, Republic Services, appreciated many times over in the first few years after Mr. Huizenga assumed control in 1995. Though Republic at the time was another garbage-hauling company, it became a vehicle for the conglomerate that Mr. Huizenga had set out to build. It proceeded to open a national chain of used-car stores and purchase dozens of new-car dealerships as well as a few rental car companies for good measure, among them Alamo and National.', 'Mr. Huizenga believed that consolidation of these different entities would unlock significant efficiencies, and that the sheer volume made possible by a national automobile retail and service business could offset its low margins.', '“We were coming from Blockbuster, with huge gross margins, and he said, ‘There’s no margins here,’ ” Mr. Henninger said. “I started to agree with him. Then he said: ‘But look at the number of zeroes. If you multiply a small margin by big volume, that’s a big number, Bob.”', 'Even so, the automotive portion of the business, later spun off as AutoNation, struggled. In 1999, the company hired Mike Jackson, at the time the head of Mercedes-Benz in the United States, as its chief executive.', 'After two weeks on the job, Mr. Jackson recalled in an interview, he met with Mr. Huizenga and told him that to rationalize the business, it should sell off many pieces and focus on new cars.', '“It was a moment of truth, telling Wayne we would have to do some major surgery,” Mr. Jackson said. “But he said, ‘O.K., Mike, you have my support.’ Wayne fully empowered me to do what needed to be done.”', 'AutoNation today is the largest pure auto retailer in the country as well as one of the most consistently profitable players in the industry.', 'Mr. Huizenga retired as chairman of AutoNation in the early 2000s but remained a major shareholder and mentor to Mr. Jackson.', 'As a businessman, Mr. Huizenga was famous for his brass tacks financial sense, but this same unsentimentality led to a checkered career as a sports magnate, whose portfolio included the Florida Panthers hockey team and the Miami Dolphins. He owned a World Series champion, the 1997 Florida Marlins, but began dismantling the team shortly after that triumph amid significant financial losses. He sold the team the following year.', 'For years after that, Mr. Huizenga was stung by criticism that he had betrayed the community with his coldblooded stewardship of its championship team. In his view, it was just the opposite: He had invested tens of millions of dollars of personal money to produce a contender and succeeded against all odds, only to see the Florida fan-base respond indifferently.', '“I think that had the stands been filled every day for regular games and not at one-quarter capacity, he would have said, ‘I lost $30 million but South Florida is happy,’ ” the younger Mr. Huizenga said. “Instead, he lost $30 million and no one came. He said, ‘Wow, that hurts. I don’t understand.’ ”', 'Wayne Jr. said his father had believed that he was behaving honorably by unloading high-priced contracts once he had decided to sell the team, so that a new owner could start afresh and not have to play the role of bad guy for a franchise that was hemorrhaging money.', 'Harry Wayne Huizenga was born on Dec. 29, 1937, in Chicago to Jean and Harry Huizenga. The family moved to Florida when he was a teenager, and he graduated from Pine Crest High School in Fort Lauderdale.', 'He attended Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich., but dropped out to pursue his business interests. His first marriage, to Joyce Vanderwagon, ended in divorce. His second wife, the former Martha Jean Pike, died last year.', 'Besides his son Wayne, Mr. Huizenga is survived by three other children, Scott and Ray Huizenga and Pamela Huizenga Alexander, and 11 grandchildren.', 'He was a significant donor to the Republican Party and remained active in Huizenga Holdings until his death.', 'The head of a prominent Latino business organization is leaving his job amid allegations of financial impropriety and sexual harassment.', 'Late Monday, directors of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce announced that the group’s president and chief executive, Javier Palomarez, would step aside.', '“After much deliberation and careful consideration for the future of the USHCC,” the board said, “Mr. Palomarez and the board of directors have mutually agreed to undergo a leadership transition for the organization effective immediately.”', 'The board made no mention of the allegations that have enveloped its chief executive, saying only that it was committed to “dignity, respect, and a careful stewardship of its financial resources.” The departure follows the board’s announcement on Friday that it had hired an outside law firm to investigate “various allegations,” but did not offer details or specify who was the subject of the claims.', 'As part of the statement on Monday, Mr. Palomarez said he was “extremely proud” of his tenure at the chamber, which calls itself the voice of 4.4 million Hispanic-owned businesses.', 'Mr. Palomarez, who has run the organization for close to a decade, was accused by a longtime board member last fall of paying himself hundreds of thousands of dollars more than he was entitled to under his contract, according to minutes from the board’s charitable foundation and a Texas court filing.', 'In the Texas filing, Mr. Palomarez denied any financial impropriety. He said in a statement Friday that the claims against him sprang from a “retaliatory effort” by Nina Vaca, the board member who flagged them first. Ms. Vaca declined to comment.', 'Mr. Palomarez was also accused of sexually harassing his former chief of staff, Gissel Gazek Nicholas. In an interview with The New York Times, Ms. Nicholas said that at the end of a group meeting in a Chicago hotel suite in 2013, he asked her to stay behind after the others left, then asked if she had ever thought about “being” with him and tried to kiss her. Her account was corroborated by an email she sent to a friend within hours of the incident and another friend in whom she confided afterward.', 'A lawyer for Ms. Nicholas, who was fired from her job last November after eight years at the organization, has threatened to sue both Mr. Palomarez and the organization for sexual assault, sexual harassment, creating a hostile work environment and retaliation.', 'In his statement Friday, Mr. Palomarez said, “I categorically deny these deeply troubling allegations.”', 'NASHVILLE — Tim Vogus, a professor at Vanderbilt University’s business school, was stoking the debate in his classroom one day this fall, asking first-year M.B.A. students about one of the most successful, and controversial, companies of the day. On the syllabus was Uber, a case study in both sensational business success and rampant corporate misbehavior.', '“A toxic culture might be obvious when you think about Uber,” Professor Vogus said. “But I’m an old person. What is this whole ‘bro’ thing?”', 'There were some awkward chuckles, and then hands started popping up. “It’s carrying fraternity culture with you into adult life,” said one student, Nick Glennon. Another student, Jonathon Brangan, said, “It’s arrogance mixed with the feeling of invincibility.”', '“You basically have these 20-year-olds who are in charge of these companies that are worth billions of dollars,” said Monroe Stadler, 26. “And they fly too close to the sun.”', 'An M.B.A. education is no longer just about finance, marketing, accounting and economics. As topics like sexual harassment dominate the national conversation and chief executives weigh in on the ethical and social issues of the day, business schools around the country are hastily reshaping their curriculums with case studies ripped straight from the headlines.', 'At Vanderbilt, there are classes on Uber and “bro” culture. At Stanford, students are studying sexual harassment in the workplace. And at Harvard, the debate encompasses sexism and free speech.', '“There’s a turning point in what’s expected from business leaders,” said Leanne Meyer, co-director of a new leadership department at the Carnegie Mellon Tepper School of Business. “Up until now, business leaders were largely responsible for delivering products. Now, shareholders are looking to corporate leaders to make statements on what would traditionally have been social justice or moral issues.”', 'Several factors are contributing to these revised syllabuses. Bad behavior by big companies has thrust ethics back into the news, from Wells Fargo’s creation of fake accounts to sexual harassment at Fox News to the litany of improprieties at Uber. Some millennials are prioritizing social and environmental responsibility.', 'And a new generation of chief executives is speaking out about moral and political issues in the Trump era. Just four months ago, prominent corporate executives came together to dissolve two business councils consulting with President Trump after he blamed “many sides” for an outburst of white supremacist violence in Charlottesville, Va.', '“Something has changed,” said Ed Soule, a professor at the Georgetown McDonough School of Business. “I would be kidding you if I told you there wasn’t a different vibe in the classroom.”', 'This fall, Professor Soule assigned coursework covering sexual harassment at Uber, how companies like Amazon respond when attacked by Mr. Trump and the social justice protests by N.F.L. players.', 'During one class, students debated whether players should have been more deferential to the wishes of team owners and the league, or whether the league should have supported players more vocally. The conversation grew tense when the topic turned to respect for the national anthem, and Mr. Trump’s forceful response to players who continued to kneel as it was played.', '“Ethics and values have taken on more significance,” Professor Soule said. “It has to do with all of the things going on in this administration, often things that challenge our understanding of ethics and leadership.”', 'Professors are reacting to the news, but they are also responding to calls from students for classes that deal with ethics. In recent years, students have said ethical issues, not finances, are a business’s most important responsibility, according to a survey of business school students worldwide conducted by a United Nations group and Macquarie University in Australia.', '“There’s a growing body of M.B.A.s who are really passionate about this,” said LaToya Marc, who graduated from Harvard Business School last spring and now works in sales and operations at Comcast. “It may not affect your bottom line directly, but it needs to be affecting how you make decisions.”', 'Students also realize that as leaders of increasingly diverse work forces, they will need to understand their employees’ perspectives on national debates, and how corporate decisions affect them.', '“It is a shift, absolutely, mostly because all of our companies are just starting to look a lot different,” Ms. Marc said.', 'One way that some business schools are responding is by drawing on the social sciences, like behavioral economics and psychology. The Stanford Graduate School of Business’s ethics class — taught by two political scientists, one an expert in behavior and the other in game theory — sounds more like a course in human nature than in finance.', 'A new topic this year is sexual harassment, and how to create a workplace culture in which people feel comfortable reporting it. The Stanford students studied psychological research showing that people are more willing to challenge authority if at least one other person joins them, and discussed ways to encourage such reporting.', 'Next year, Fern Mandelbaum, a venture capitalist, will teach a new class to Stanford M.B.A. candidates called Equity by Design: Building Diverse and Inclusive Organizations.', '“It’s not just how the C.E.O. of Uber was treating women,” Ms. Mandelbaum said. “The bias is throughout the system.”', 'Carnegie Mellon started its leadership department after hearing from alumni that it needed more training related to skills like empathy and communication. This fall, Ms. Meyer’s students studied a contentious memo written by a Google engineer, who was then fired, arguing that women were less suited to engineering than men.', '“We said, ‘This is not just a gender issue. It’s a business issue,’” Ms. Meyer said. “It has marketing implications, legal implications, H.R. implications.”', 'Gender is an issue that students are particularly interested in, according to the Forté Foundation, which works with business schools to help more women advance into leadership roles. The foundation has developed a tool kit for men, with tips like choosing a name such as “ally” or “liaison” to denote a sense of partnership, or using role-playing scenarios about sensitive situations, like what to do if a colleague says, “She only got the promotion because she’s a woman.”', 'Two dozen schools have started groups based on the program, including groups called the Manbassadors, for men committed to gender equity in business, at the business schools at Columbia, Dartmouth and Harvard.', 'The goal is “making sure that as men we’re very aware of some of the privileges we’re afforded simply because of gender,” said Alen Amini, a third-year student at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth and a founder of its Manbassadors group.', 'As previously taboo subjects enter the classroom debate, students and professors are still adjusting.', '“It can get pretty controversial,” said Aaron Chatterji, an associate professor at the Duke University Fuqua School of Business who is starting a class about activism among chief executives. “I’ve never taught a class where I’ve had students talking about gay rights or drug addiction.”', 'At Vanderbilt, Professor Vogus solicited ideas from the class about how Uber might change its ways. One student suggested hiring fewer star engineers and more team players. Another proposed hiring a woman to lead human resources.', '“We have a ‘C.E.-bro’ culture in the technology sector today, but we’ve had ‘C.E.-bros’ throughout time,” said a student, April Hughes. “Enron was an example of this. All the guys there thought they were smarter than everyone else.”', 'The class turned testy, however, as students debated whether Uber’s hard-charging culture might have been an asset.', '“Some of that brashness was actually critical to the company being successful,” said one student, Andrew Bininger.', 'When the Uber conversation turned to gender and power dynamics, a female student suggested that women in the Vanderbilt M.B.A. program had to work harder than their male counterparts.', '“The women who do make it to business school are all super strong personalities, whereas the men here can float through without being the cream of the crop,” Natalie Copley said, adding of the women in the class, “They’re not meek little timid things.”', 'That drew jeers from the men in the group, and Professor Vogus changed the subject.', '‘Trump Force One,” a quarter-century-old Boeing 757, might not be the largest, or the fastest, or the most expensive private aircraft in the world, but it holds the undeniable virtue of being the most famous. With a pair of powerfully inefficient Rolls-Royce RB211 turbofan engines, the plane was flown by discount airlines after its completion in 1991 (the first in Denmark, the second in Mexico) before it was sold in 1995 to Paul Allen, the Microsoft co-founder. Allen is said to have selected this particular plane from his personal fleet to ferry about his N.F.L. team, the Seattle Seahawks. In 2011, Donald J. Trump reportedly paid $100 million for the plane and in short order erased whatever traces of Seahawk might have remained: The plane’s face-lift included the installation of a silken master bedroom, as well as 24-karat-gold plating on the bathroom fixtures and seatbelts.', 'The plane’s opulence — its seats embroidered with what the reality-TV star claimed was the Trump family crest — and its billionaire pedigree recalled a venerable tradition of elite mobility, whereby warrior-aristocrats would commission costly ships not just for splendid seafaring and maritime conflict but for exchange among themselves, as gifts befitting their shared station. These practices endured for millenniums, from Pharaonic barges and Chinese imperial dragon boats to medieval Viking galleys (as, in the 10th century, when King Harald Fairhair of Norway presented to King Aethelstan of the West Saxons and the Mercians a purple-sailed vessel with a bow of gold) and British royal yachts, which Queen Victoria lent liberally to friends like the Empress of Austria.', 'The early custodians of the American experiment, with egalitarian ideals and no real use for fancy boats, moved from here to there with relative humility. In 1787, when Thomas Jefferson set out from Paris for a three-month, 1,200-mile visit to American interests in Mediterranean seaports, he took no servants and paid personally to refresh the carriage horses. It was only with the arrival of the train that Americans developed a taste for class-differentiated transit. Perhaps the first private celebrity rail car was built by P.T. Barnum as a touring parlor for the “Swedish nightingale,” Jenny Lind, and soon these were de rigueur among robber barons like Leland Stanford, George Gould and Charles Schwab. William H. Vanderbilt, during the decade-long tenure he enjoyed as the richest man in America, ordered what The Chicago Daily Tribune identified in 1882 as “the most expensive private vehicle in the world.” The Vanderbilt featured a “grand saloon” with lavish exterior panels of train depots and suspension bridges rendered in oil, but its owner emphasized not the trappings but the performance: “Mr. Vanderbilt has inherited his father’s fondness for fast traveling, and, in a lesser degree, the old Commodore’s partiality for what is known in railroad-parlance as ‘going special’ — which is traveling with a special engine, on special time and without regard to the trains and traffic of the road.”', 'Yet even after these industrial and financial titans had begun to avail themselves of such perquisites, our heads of state maintained lingering reservations about priority treatment. In late 1863, the government appropriated funds to outfit President Lincoln with a custom rail coach. Later accounts would inflate the car’s extravagance, but according to the assistant master car builder in Alexandria, Va., “Anyone who knew the habits of Mr. Lincoln would scout the idea of his designing an armored car of such luxurious appointments for his own use in going to the front.” The Great Emancipator rode in it but once, when the somber whistle-stop tour of the “Lincoln Special” returned his earthly remains to Springfield. It was not until 1942, after aides persuaded President Roosevelt that safety concerns necessitated a special-purpose vehicle, that American commanders in chief took their passage in executive style, in a V.I.P.-retrofitted version of the Pullman Company’s Ferdinand Magellan. In January 1943, the train delivered Roosevelt under cover of night to Miami. He was taken in three legs across the Atlantic on a Boeing 314, the Dixie Clipper, to meet Churchill and De Gaulle in Casablanca. It was the first time a sitting U.S. president had flown.', 'And now our current president has brought the spirit of the private plane — the great symbol of extreme excess in isolated and theoretically productive comfort — to American public life. As a candidate, he held rallies in hangars so that his supporters might witness the grandiosity of his roaring descent from the sky. Once in office, Trump appointed the most disproportionately enplaned administration in history: According to Forbes, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has a Dassault Falcon; Linda McMahon, the Small Business Administration administrator, has a Bombardier Global; Education Secretary Betsy DeVos and her family maintain a fleet of 12 private jets, including a Boeing and six Gulfstreams, as well as four helicopters; Gary Cohn, the chairman of the National Economic Council, and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross each retain private-jet shares in a fractional-ownership arrangement.', 'The fact that the administration backed a tax-reform plan that enshrines an exemption for private-jet owners has only confirmed for its critics their sense that Trump’s party cares inordinately for the well-being of the 1 percent. This is not the case; this solicitousness is rather more accurately geared toward the 1 percent of the 1 percent of the 1 percent. There are only around 22,000 private jets in use worldwide, and even a majority of these are simple minivan-size craft and other puddle-jumpers, commonly flown by hobbyist pilots; they would strike most observers as less luxurious than alarming. The number of truly elite planes is just 7,000, give or take, in the divisions that the industry calls “super midsize,” “large-cabin” and “heavy” or “bizliner.” Often they are technically owned by governments, large corporations and offshore shell companies, though irrespective of paper tenancy almost all of them are ultimately operated for, and exchanged among, a globalized confraternity of individual potentates: a commingled class of plutocrats, kleptocrats, oligarchs, financiers, technologists, real-estate and natural-resource barons and blue-chip celebrities. Imagine, if you will, in the unbreathably thin, cloudless, low-pressure air high above your head, our modern royalty aloft on their way to Davos, making enviable time.', 'Like most people who make their living in private aviation, Steve Varsano — owner of the Jet Business, whose extravagant retail space in London is the world’s only walk-in storefront jet dealership — sees Trump’s election as a harbinger of great things for his industry. The early 2000s were boom times for aviation, and the crash of 2008, after years of ramped-up production, hit the industry hard, not just economically but politically. Barack Obama, Varsano believed, created an environment hostile to private aviation: The president humiliated the near-bankrupt auto manufacturers after they arrived in Washington hat in hand on their corporate jets, and in a 2011 news conference about the economy, Obama mentioned corporate jets six times. After Trump’s inauguration, when Varsano and I first spoke, he was once again sanguine about the sector’s prospects. He got so many phone calls after Nov. 8, 2016, he said, that he started looking for a new retail space twice the size. “The guy is changing the optics of private aviation,” he told me in March. “He’s the mascot of private jets.”', 'Varsano, who says he has sold or helped to sell almost 300 aircraft over the course of his career, is a large, fit, exceptionally good looking and effortlessly agreeable self-made man of 61. He has an imposing head crowned with slicked-back pewter hair, piercing eyes of an Aegean blue, an imperial nose and the resplendent smile of a beloved crooner on a Caesars Palace pension. He wears suits made by the Ghanaian-British Savile Row designer Ozwald Boateng over worn Italian loafers, and carries a weathered gray Louis Vuitton briefcase with a heavy metal clasp. His business card is milled from galvanized metal. By his estimate, the total value of sales he has brokered exceeds $4 billion.', 'Although Varsano shares the migratory patterns of his clients, and it is not unusual for him to fly from London to New York or Dubai for lunch, he thinks his most effective work is done in a stationary environment. His groundbreaking storefront concept rested on a simple premise, which might be called, in contrast to the “foot traffic” that animates most retail, Bentley traffic. The scene: A jaded “principal,” as the industry refers to owners or potential owners, seated languidly in the rear of a Mulsanne, catches the apparition of a full-scale airplane fuselage glowing in a plate-glass window, removes his Cartier sunglasses and petitions his driver to loop back around. On arrival, these principals are typically received at a back door, asked for a business card and then stalled by reception just long enough — usually no more than 90 seconds — for Varsano to locate the V.I.P. in his proprietary worldwide database of owners, then press a button that splashes the store’s enormous display wall with an image of the visitor’s current plane.', 'The gambit has worked: In the four years his first location was open, Varsano hosted, by his count, precisely 117 billionaires. (Varsano’s business requires great discretion, and he allowed me to hang around the showroom on the condition I not name names.) Varsano’s client database is a directory not merely of internationally mobile wealth but of the airborne truth of contemporary sovereignty: contrails of power with only a glancing relationship to the nation-states below. Our civilian acquaintance with these networks is limited to the shadows they cast on the ground, in the form of private airports, and the bureaucratic residue they leave behind as the Panama or Paradise Papers. Varsano is the rare figure able to hold in his head an image of the entire vast but tiny complex as flesh and bone suspended, at cruising altitude, in hollow metal tubes.', 'There aren’t many places on Earth with a large enough community of transient billionaires to support such immoderately high-end retail, but central London is one of them. After much thought about his new location, Varsano decided that the best chance of catching his customers on their brief earthbound dalliances was from a space on Park Lane, which runs along Hyde Park’s eastern perimeter. Varsano declined to divulge the rent, but comparable real estate listings suggest a price of about three-quarters of a million dollars a year. The store’s interior has been furnished as a gallery of sumptuous surfaces: panels of midnight blue velvet offset with enormous beveled mirrors; columns and floors in a storm-cloud-patterned marble; rectilinear sconces of a translucent black-veined marble; timbering of dark lacquered walnut and mahogany; side tables set with purple succulents in glimmering copper spheres and moon-white orchids. To the rear is a clubroom, supervised by a large photograph of Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin on an aircraft’s staircase — Varsano sold Sinatra a Learjet in the early 1980s, though his honor obligated him to tell me it wasn’t the one in the picture — and Varsano’s personal office, swathed in gray crocodile skin, where he sits, behind an armored door, at a desk once owned by Margaret Thatcher.', 'The front window acts as a behemoth aquarium for Varsano’s pièce de résistance: the bulk of the fuselage of an actual Airbus A319. The segment of plane in Varsano’s window, were it a JetBlue workhorse, would represent perhaps 20 rows of plastic trays and passenger elbows. The Jet Business mock-up has the capacity for one passenger of roomy ambition, along with a small entourage. Varsano encourages his clients to appoint an airplane interior as if it were a second home, and in that spirit he directed a tony design firm to decorate his floor model to the last degree of his own preference, a nostalgic homage to aggressive 1980s overkill: suede linings; black mink throws on couches and captain’s chairs of cream leather; hardwood and chrome; a heavy wooden artisanal backgammon board; chandeliers of droopy rectangular mirrors. Bottles of Royal Dragon Superior Vodka are set into the cupholders, and the bars are stocked with Dom Pérignon. Behind a fixed bulkhead where the fore galley would be, fitted lengthwise into the cross-section, is a corporate-raider-inflected “boardroom.”', 'At an industry trade fair in Geneva last May, I overheard an industry analyst explain Varsano’s storefront to a Russian lawyer: “It’s like you go to his shop to buy an airplane the way you might buy a dress or a car.” The booths at the fair seemed to make this comparison plausible; while some of them offered pragmatic aviation solutions (soundproofing, flameproofing, protecting your cockpit from laser attack), there were also great billowing capes of sample leather upholsteries called Monarch and Noble and Duchess, and honeycomb composites made to resemble the fine grain of any protected wood, and vendors that offered bespoke seat-perforation patterns. Varsano, however, finds the analogy flippant. In a 2013 interview, shortly after his shop opened, Varsano told the BBC: “The view that it’s all about flying off on a skiing trip with Champagne and girls is just so untrue.” For Varsano, an aircraft is a practical necessity — a “business tool” or a “time machine.”', '“Good usage of a private aircraft is about 400 hours a year,” he told me. “I did the math, and my calculation is that even 200 hours of use of a corporate jet adds 33 days to an executive’s year. Now, you bring two or three other execs with him — do the math, and all of a sudden you’ve got a free C.E.O.! When the automobile companies came to appear in front of Congress and they got such a hard time for arriving on their corporate jets, they shouldn’t have been so wimpish! They should have said, ‘Yeah, we came in on a private jet, we have a million employees and we’ve got to fly back tonight at midnight to be in the office at 7 a.m. to save this company.’\u2009”', 'On a Saturday in October, two days before he was set to reopen, Varsano invited me to a late dinner with two of his friends at a restaurant in Berkeley Square that was reserved through 2018. After we finished dinner a little after 11, Varsano suggested we visit his office for a sort of soft opening. The showroom was arrayed in muted sky blues and overcast grays, and we took our places in deep-set swiveling club chairs oriented in a semicircle before 32 tiled wide-screen panels of vivid high-definition display. Overhead was a large elliptical inset of soft eggshell leather, gently branded with the company’s geometric logo of intersecting flight paths, illuminated by a recessed orbit of dusky yellow.', 'He picked up an infrared mouse and asked one of the two friends — a luminously preserved businessman who asked not to be named — to begin by telling him how much he’d be willing to spend, in theory, on a replacement of his seven-year-old plane.', '“Let’s say 60 million,” the businessman said. Varsano entered a price setting on the enormous screen’s left sidebar. This number, it should be noted, represented only the price of the aircraft itself. For the larger planes, buyers often spend the same amount of money on personal customization as they do on the initial purchase.', '“What’s the longest trip you do regularly?”', '“London to Los Angeles.” Varsano set the range to 4,700 nautical miles.', '“How old a plane would you feel comfortable with?”', '“New.”', '“Let’s say two years,” Varsano proposed. The businessman looked away from the screen and at Varsano. “O.K., one year.” Varsano clicked the corresponding setting.', '“How many passengers?”', '“Fourteen.”', 'Varsano finalized the search, and the screen tiled itself into brochure-quality images of aircraft exteriors. “There are 13 suitable planes potentially on the market for you.” By “on the market,” he meant planes that were either actually advertised somewhere or were technically off-market but, as with anything, available at the right price. Varsano scanned over the images. “Should we include an A.C.J. or a B.B.J., or not one of those big ones?” About 20 years ago, in an attempt to capture a share of what was then an increasingly profitable private market, Boeing and Airbus developed imprints of their companies — Boeing Business Jets, or B.B.J., and Airbus Corporate Jets, or A.C.J. — that sell commercial airliners with V.I.P. configurations. These “bizliners” are much larger than a typical private jet, with space for multiple bedrooms and showers or thrones, and use more gas; they can cost from $90 million to $500 million, and as much as $13,000 an hour to run. Individuals, Varsano told me in Geneva, often avoid them because of what the industry calls “ramp presence”: The size and bulbousness of a B.B.J. or an A.C.J. invite class resentment, and, worse, might remind onlookers of the easyJet they flew in on. A Gulfstream is regarded as a more prudent and tasteful choice. The G650, Gulfstream’s flagship product, is currently the skyfaring object of greatest desire, and it is no exaggeration to call the $70 million aircraft the world’s single greatest status commodity. Desire for them is so ardent in part because of their physical elegance — they have a phocine aspect, with a silkily sloping underbelly and large, widely spaced elliptical portholes, with an interior like a conch shell — and in part because they cut a more discreet profile.', '“Then we’ll compare three possibilities: a bizliner, a Gulfstream G650 and a Global 6000” — the last of these a roughly comparable model from the Canadian firm Bombardier. “Let’s look at the ranges,” Varsano proposed, and the screen lit up with a world map, centered on London and overlaid with “maximum range perimeters” in red, blue and yellow, scrolling across the continents in chromatic sine waves. The ranges swept down from Los Angeles almost to São Paulo before coming back up to the east, to comfortably include Dubai, and then ultimately sweeping in a band between Beijing and Tokyo. The businessman nodded.', '“Now let’s look at the differences in cross-section.” Three overlapping fuselage outlines appeared on the screen, again in red, blue and yellow. “It’s a 100 percent scale,” Varsano said. “Get up and stand there.” The businessman measured himself against the images and did not find the dimensions wanting.', '“O.K., sell me the B.B.J.,” the businessman said, in a failed attempt to seem idly flirtatious.', 'Varsano clicked again. “Here’s the market data, all the B.B.J.s for sale around the world according to our database.” The video wall exhibited a branded, proprietary table with the relevant real-time statistics — date of manufacture, delivery date, passenger allowance, range, expected price — for around 20 planes. The top line featured an aircraft that had only a thousand hours on it, which represented either about two and a half years of private use or perhaps a month and a half of commercial deployment. It was located in an Asian country for more than $70 million and had been on the market for almost a year. Varsano scrolled through images, drawn from his firm’s database, of the actual interiors of the available planes, while subtly discouraging the businessman from his instinct to purchase one brand-new. This was in part because delivery of new planes can take a very long time and in part because there is no rational reason for anyone to purchase a new plane, and on some level the idea violates Varsano’s respect for his product’s engineering and durability.', '“So, Steve,” the businessman asked, with the merest hint of vulnerability, “what would you buy?”', 'Varsano shrugged; he was used to the question. He also knew exactly what the businessman should buy — he could size that up within minutes — but was careful never to seem pushy. “I would buy the B.B.J. if I was taking long flights all the time and bringing along my kids and their nannies and whatever animals.” He paused. “On the other hand, you can’t fly directly to Aspen,” because the runway is too short. “You’d have to fly to Rifle, and then drive 45 minutes. In London, you couldn’t fly in and out of Northolt at maximum weight, but you’d be O.K. in Farnborough and Luton.”', '“What about the Gulfstream?”', '“Well, you’d get to L.A. an hour faster, but you’ll drive yourself crazy with the kids and the nannies and the animals.” The businessman, who had both grown children and still-nannied children, said nothing.', '“But the thing is,” Varsano continued, “you have to fly on one of these yourself — and that means chartering one and taking the whole family to L.A., not just taking an empty one to Milan alone. You won’t have the real experience that way.”', '“Well, I love the idea of a B.B.J., but I don’t like the noise, the cabin volume.” He paused again. The pretense that this was simply a fun half-drunken near-midnight exercise had been openly abandoned. “This is coming up. I have to do it sooner rather than later.”', 'Varsano wears special French cuffs with round cutouts to display a saucer-size watch; he glanced down and saw that it was nearly midnight. He stood up and asked us to take our places on the dimly moonlit sidewalk outside. We watched as he ceremonially lifted the shades for the first time, revealing the pristine fuselage bathed in pools of aquamarine and royal blue. Tufts of cumulus, floodlit from below, had been painted on the ceiling above the plane. After just a few moments, Varsano closed the shades again, and the incandescent celestial blue disappeared once more into the reflected red and white flashes of terrestrial traffic.', 'Underneath Varsano’s burnished charm is the working-class New Jersey of his youth. At one point, he made T-shirts for his friends and prospective clients that said, “Happy Holidays, Happy New Year, stop apologizing for your success, buy a jet!” He is known for his honesty and diligence, as well as a certain slickness to his operation. On a shared panel at the Geneva fair, an industry journalist looked over at Varsano and said, “Steve is a guy, he goes to one wedding in India and he came back having sold eight jets.” He bristles at the idea, however, that he is a good salesman who happens to sell airplanes. When the third-generation scion of a private-fleeted family told him he should diversify his wares, Varsano just shook his head. Planes are what he knows and has adored since childhood. “I don’t want to be the guy opening up the trench coat” — he pantomimed a black-market peddler — “saying, I got watches in here, yachts over here, real estate here.”', 'More than one person told me that Varsano probably knew more billionaires personally than anyone alive. He admitted he had never quite gotten used to his current circumstances. Though he had been dealing jets on and off for almost 30 years, for a long time, he said, “I wasn’t really part of this world. I just worked in it.” Varsano was born in Manhattan but raised on the far side of the George Washington Bridge, in the working-class suburbs near Teterboro Airport. Teterboro now hosts the largest share of American private-jet traffic, but back then it was just another local airstrip. He was brought up by a single mother — his father left his family when Varsano was 5 — who always worked at least two jobs, as a waitress and in beauty salons, where Varsano swept the floor. When he was 14, a friend’s older brother took him up in a four-seater Cessna. He would work for a month as a dishwasher to be able to afford an hour of flying lessons and got his pilot’s license when he was 17. He went to Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, a prestigious flight academy in Daytona Beach that he calls “the Harvard of the sky.” It was his first exposure to extreme international wealth, especially the variety that accrued to despots and their associates. “It was full of kids like the son of Idi Amin, who drove Ferraris around Daytona and would then go back to the military in their country. It was a real who’s who.”', 'He first worked as an intern at the St. Petersburg-Clearwater airport, then moved to Washington in 1978 for an entry-level job as an aviation lobbyist. The association had a plane he could fly whenever he liked, as long as he paid for gas, but he was making only $13,000 a year. It was the age of disco, and his roommate ran the Apple Tree, “the hottest club in D.C. It was the place to go, a special elite place.” He worked as a doorman to make gas money for the plane. One day a guy came into the Apple Tree with a Learjet on his tie pin. “These were the days people used to wear tie pins,” Varsano explained to me. “When people used to wear ties.” Varsano went up to him and discovered he worked for a jet brokerage. “I said, Screw this, I want a job there.” The man got him an interview.', '“I put on the best polyester suit I could find, and I go in there, and everybody’s sitting around in T-shirts and jeans. They told me they never meet their customers. They do it all on the phone. I say, ‘How do you sell a $5 million plane on the phone?’ But that was just the way the business was done.” They allowed him to work on a commission-only basis. At night he put in shifts as a waiter in McLean, Va., and by day he tried to sell planes. “At 4 p.m. I’m talking to a guy about a $4 million Learjet, and at 6 p.m. I’m getting yelled at to refill some guy’s coffee. It was a humbling experience, and it kept me grounded. Seven or eight months later, I sold a Westwind II to one of the richest guys in Venezuela.” (He claims that as they neared Miami during the delivery, the Venezuelan’s associates pulled a gun and tried to kidnap him to Caracas, but he managed to escape.)', 'In the 1980s, Varsano began to move in Washington’s society circles; he hosted charity benefits, including one at the Old Post Office building, which is now Trump’s Washington hotel, and dated socialite doyennes like Shari Theismann, the ex-wife of the Redskins quarterback Joe Theismann. He took a trip to England to pick up a plane for delivery and came back with a right-side-drive Ferrari Berlinetta Boxer; his vanity plate was “BUYAJET.” He once drove it up the White House driveway to return Fawn Hall, Oliver North’s secretary, to her car. In the spring of 1985, Varsano was named Bachelor of the Month by Cosmopolitan magazine. “At 29,” the Washington journalist Rudy Maxa reported, in a follow-up about the thousands of scented letters Varsano received from Cosmo’s readers, “he earns more than $100,000 a year traveling the world, selling private jets. With thick, dark hair, a strong chin and firm physique, he’s an Italian stallion who dresses sharp, looks sharp and feels sharp.”', 'After Varsano sold a plane to the corporate raider Nelson Peltz in the mid-’80s, he went to work for him in the world of private equity, where he developed a halfhearted fondness for the Gekko manner. Varsano coordinated Peltz’s purchase and overhaul of High Winds, DeWitt Wallace’s estate in Bedford, N.Y.; Peltz infuriated the local community by flying his helicopter to Manhattan almost daily. (A representative for Peltz disputed Varsano’s account of their relationship but declined to provide specifics.) When Varsano and a subsequent boss acquired some fast-food companies in the early 2000s, he found himself in charge of the developing-market expansion of the Long John Silver’s brand. Each time he visited the offices of Russian oligarchs or Middle Eastern royals, he found they invariably displayed a model of their private planes. They loved the opportunity to talk about them with someone as knowledgeable as Varsano, and he realized that he had stumbled into an enormous opportunity. Fifteen years ago, 85 percent of the private planes in the world were in the United States, but he could see that was changing. The deals he does today bear out this shift. He outlined one example: “Russian owner, Panamanian shell company, Swiss-registered airplane, selling to a Chinese corporation, with the inspection in Switzerland, lawyers in Germany and the U.K. and the escrow agent in the U.S.”', 'Varsano knows his relevant client base down to nearly the last person, and his aim is to maintain up-to-date records on every single one of the six or seven thousand jets that are large enough for the Jet Business to follow. Roughly a quarter of its business is with first-time buyers, but those leads tend to be so dicey that Varsano’s staff dedicates most of its time and energy to plane-owning people and organizations. “If you’ve got a fast-food restaurant,” Varsano told me, “it’s easier to get the guy who comes in three times a month to come in four times a month than it is to get a new customer. So we try to check in with all the current owners at least every quarter.”', 'A research staff works on a trading floor behind convexities of smoked glass, at cockpit-like desks of kid-glove Bentley leather with three screens apiece. They begin with an industry-standard subscription database, but its information — serial number, registration information, sales history, whatever is known of the ownership and any publicly listed current prices — is almost always incomplete or unreliable, as the most sensitive data is concealed underneath layers of shell companies incorporated in places like Delaware, Panama or the British Virgin Islands. Beyond ferreting out the basic question of ownership, Varsano’s researchers try to gather as much market information as they can. They’ll see that a given plane is going out of warranty in a year or two, or is about to hit the end of a corporate depreciation schedule, or is due for the sort of routine but expensive engine check that regulators require, or they’ll know a new model is due from the factory soon, and they’ll ask if the owner has given any thought to a sale. Varsano is known to represent serious buyers, so if they call and say they’ve got a customer in the market for a G650 or a Falcon 900LX, his researchers are confident they’ll get legitimate (if exaggerated) bid-ask spreads.', 'After a long afternoon with one of his researchers, I mentioned to Varsano that his constant emphasis on the utility of jets was at times hard to square with the tenor of a market that seems to rely so much on appurtenance and churn. Airplanes are so rigorously regulated in their maintenance that there’s practically no difference, outside cockpit avionics and maintenance fees, between a 20-year-old Gulfstream GV and a freshly delivered G650 except that new-plane smell and about $50 million.', 'Varsano had a prepared answer — about range and cabin pressure and what it’s worth to a chief executive of a $10 billion company to land at his or her destination refreshed and ready to go — but on some level he’s well aware that his business relies on covetousness and increasingly customized definitions of need. One of the peculiarities of inequality, as psychologists and social scientists have somewhat belatedly come to understand, is that it has a kind of fractal nature. The relationship of the middle class to the rich is replicated in the relationship between the merely rich and the extremely wealthy. Varsano’s target class is so small that these dynamics, here between the extremely wealthy and the unimaginably so, are crystallized on the level of the individual. The owner of a $25 million plane feels morally judicious — even humble — insofar as he doesn’t own a $70 million plane, while at the same time he admires that of his neighbor and hopes for an upgrade. The three or four hundred owners of the $70 million plane come to see it in short order not as a luxury but as a business and lifestyle requirement, and are in turn frustrated that the wireless signal isn’t strong enough and that there just aren’t enough landing slots in Hong Kong or hangar spaces for parking in Mumbai.', 'Over the spring, Varsano had insisted that I really couldn’t comprehend the appeal of these planes unless I flew with an owner myself. “You could read a book about swimming,” he said, “but until I throw you into the pool, you’re not going to swim.” He offered to connect me to a customer who might grant me that privilege: his buddy Tony Robbins, motivational guru to the jet-possession set. Robbins flies 400 hours a year, including regular runs to London and Australia, and wherever he goes, he takes an entourage — usually a trainer, a bodyworker, two assistants, his wife and her Yorkie.', 'One summer day, my phone rang from an unknown number, and Robbins’s deep but sweetly croaking voice boomed on the line. A few years ago Robbins mentioned to his friend Steve Wynn that it was time for him to buy a plane, and Wynn told him that he was crazy to talk to anyone but Varsano — that he would never even think of buying a plane from anybody but Varsano. Varsano helped Robbins buy a Bombardier Global Express previously owned by Micky Arison, the chairman of Carnival cruises and the owner of the Miami Heat, who had recently decided to upgrade to a Gulfstream G650. Varsano literally had to walk across hot coals to close the deal. Robbins loved the plane. It felt like his second home — or, to be more precise, his seventh.', 'Robbins told me he was flying to Vancouver that afternoon and said that I was welcome to fly with him in about 10 days’ time from Vancouver to Las Vegas, with a stopover in Spokane to drop off his wife. His schedule, he explained, probably wouldn’t coalesce until a few days before he set off — “Part of the value of having a private jet,” he explained in a subsequent voice memo, “is that you don’t have to make decisions until the last minute” — and he ultimately decided on a Friday that he’d be leaving for Vegas the following Tuesday morning. My overbooked flight to Seattle arrived late, but fortunately my overbooked connecting flight to Vancouver was also late. One of Robbins’s assistants texted me the night before to ask if I had any dietary restrictions and to say that the plane was set to depart at 11:30 the next morning, so I should be at the Shell Aerocentre at Abbotsford, some 40 miles east of Vancouver, no later than 11:20.', 'When I arrived at the private terminal, I was supposed to look for a tail number that included, as many registrations do, the owner’s initials. That task was made considerably easier by the fact that the plane — the size of a building and bone-white against the wildfire-smoked sky — was emblazoned with a modestly stylized “TR” monogram. It was also the only aircraft there, just sitting on the apron slightly askance, the way you might hurriedly park at midnight in an otherwise empty lot. The underbelly of the aircraft was painted a soft navy, with curved racing stripes of silver and gold. Robbins showed up with his wife and her parents, proceeded through a gate in the chain-link fence and strolled slowly to the plane’s stairs. The pink-necktied captain came to relieve me of my bag, stuck a green Post-it on it upon which someone had scrawled “Vegas” and asked if it would be acceptable to place it in the rear cargo bay. He did that himself. Two maintenance men loaded the rest of the luggage from the tarmac into the hold, saving the garment bags and the golf clubs for last.', 'With five minutes before takeoff, the captain came to usher me to the plane, where I was met by Robbins’s aeronautic major-domo, Ariane, a tall, well-seasoned flight attendant in a gray business-suit uniform. The interior smelled faintly of eucalyptus. She took me to Robbins, who was sitting in what Varsano had told me was the V.I.P. chair, on the starboard side facing forward toward the galley and the pilots. After briefly introducing me to his wife, Robbins suggested we retire to the rear of the aircraft to introduce ourselves.', 'At 6-foot-7, Robbins could not begin to stand fully upright in any non-bizliner plane, but the Global came close, and he had to reduce himself by only a head to make his way past the couch and the sideboard to the rear of the cabin. About a minute with Robbins is enough to convince anyone that his size is actually a practical matter of spatio-energetic prerequisite: Any smaller vessel would simply disintegrate at the slightest vent of his life force. This energy is indivisible into units of small talk, and if Robbins ever allows for a moment of conversational entropy — by looking away from your eyes for a split second — it’s only out of politeness, to afford you the opportunity to regather your own wan, windblown vitality. He wore all black, a black exercise V-neck over black shorts, with a black baseball cap and black-and-red Nikes, in what could only have been a genuine if futile attempt to dim the charge of his fluorescence.', 'Both the couch in the main cabin and the conference-room area in the rear had been opened out into their bed configurations, with fleecy comforters and pillowcases monogrammed with the plane’s registration number. The beds and corridor were littered with multicolored balloons and confetti and conical party hats, and above the entrance to the rear of the cabin was affixed a sign that read HAPPY BIRTHDAY. The family had celebrated the birthdays that weekend of both his wife and one of his assistants, Mary, whom he called his “right arm,” though as an adult human of regular size she seemed relatively petite in comparison to his actual right arm. While Robbins had been with his wife’s family, Ariane had found the most well-stocked party store in northern Vancouver and had decorated the plane as a surprise. This effort had not gone unnoticed. “You went to north Vancouver to find a party store? You’re so incredibly dedicated.” He turned to me. “She makes it feel like home.”', 'Ariane began to back away. “Well, it is your home.”', '“Ariane,” Robbins continued, “is like family for us. She treats this place like it’s a home — and it is a home away from home. You’ve got all your stuff on it, all your family on it.” He’d been chartering planes since he was 31 or 32, and he was now 57. He had been an owner for only three years, but the difference had come to seem like one of the great disjunctures of his life. “It’s a different quality of life, for sure. I can go from the West Coast to China nonstop, East Coast to Australia with one stop. I have a resort in Fiji, and obviously going there before was a difficult situation, but now it’s easy. You can do everything on your own terms, on your own timeline, which is wonderful.” The beds were out and made because the beds were always out and made in case somebody decided to sleep.', 'Ariane came back and offered us a selection of newspapers and some scones. “The captain says the flight to Spokane will be 37 minutes and should be pretty smooth.” He told me about his admiration of Varsano, then moved on to talk of Crispr, the Human Genome Project and machine learning, and Moore’s Law — always stopping to make sure that I was there with him, that I was interested, that if I had something to contribute I should feel welcome, that we were “tossing the ball back and forth” — and how he wanted to make sure that there was enough investment in new biotechnologies that the rejuvenatory stem-cell therapy for which he’d paid a Panamanian clinic many tens of thousands of dollars would soon be cheap enough that everybody could benefit. He pointed at me as an example of someone who could benefit. Then he abruptly stood up and said that he wanted to spend a little time up front with his wife, but that we could resume such an interesting conversation on the leg to Vegas.', 'As he moved to the front, he invited me to help myself to the breakfast buffet — hash browns, scrambled eggs, turkey bacon, a vast array of fruit — that Ariane had set up on the sideboard. I looked at the panel behind the chair that Robbins vacated and saw that we had only 17 more minutes to arrival. I hadn’t even noticed we’d taken off. We stopped in Spokane, dropped off his wife, went through private Customs and Border Protection and resumed our way to Vegas. Robbins invited me to the front and asked if I’d made sure my family would have a secure financial future.', 'It was only the soft bing-bong chime that indicated our initial descent over the rumpled and barren landscape of southern Nevada that even remotely recalled the experience of commercial flight. Otherwise, the experience felt nothing at all like being on an airliner. In fact, it didn’t quite feel like flying at all. It was more like sitting in a comfortable leather armchair in a pleasingly cool and well-appointed room that at some point incidentally rose above the clouds and stayed there for a little while. Many of the people I spoke to in Geneva talked about private aviation as a variety of peak experience — and such an inarticulable experience was, after all, why Varsano told me that I could never understand private aviation without an experiential component — but that wasn’t quite right. It was if anything the opposite of a peak experience, distinguished not by anything explicitly euphoric or divine but by its total coruscating absence of everything that makes contemporary commercial air travel a pricking trial of alienation and diminishment.', 'Varsano had planned to open the heavy shades for good on a Monday morning in October at 8 a.m., and I arrived shortly beforehand to join him. I came up the stairs from the street into the reception area, and the security guard asked me twice if I had an appointment; I told Varsano that, although I was wearing a jacket, perhaps I ought to have ironed it first. “Well, the first thing I tell these security guys,” Varsano said, “is if a guy comes in here with torn jeans and a T-shirt, that guy might be worth $5 billion! A guy comes in and looks like me” — he shot his cuffs and smoothed his waistcoat — “those guys are the working stiffs.”', 'Shortly after 8, Varsano pressed some buttons in an app on his phone to raise the shades, and the showroom’s gray-and-blue interior flooded with rare London sun, mottled with umber from a hurricane bound for Ireland. Varsano’s visitors tended in the past to show up whenever and however they felt like it, so Varsano was anxious that initial business would be slow. The storefront’s start-up costs had been extremely high. He occasionally mentioned to people that for the capital he sank into the store, he could have his own plane.', 'His first appointment came via text from a member of a minor, impoverished branch of the aristocracy of a Southern European country, a useful person for whom Varsano had some pity. Some websites identified him as a count, and his Instagram account featured grainy, oversaturated selfies with Ivanka Trump and Silvio Berlusconi. The count was with an American friend and wanted to broker an introduction; if the meeting resulted in the sale, Varsano would kick him a finder’s fee. He was a member of an entire echelon that had been surprised to find that what they possessed was no longer real wealth, and they weren’t sure how to accommodate an economy that had changed so rapidly beneath their ancient lineages. “These people,” Varsano told me, “they don’t even know how to make a living — all they know is they know people, they have incredible family connections, and that’s how they survive. He’s a professional introducer.”', 'Over the next three days of renewed operation, Varsano had at least three serious visitors a day, and nobody stayed for less than an hour. They were all men, though he did plan to bring a female billionaire friend to see it after a late dinner nearby. There was one guy who’d run a large private-equity firm and then went on to oversee the national fleet of a Persian Gulf country, which was interested in selling at least two G650s in the next year; he had come in an entourage of four and said, almost apologetically, that he’d been hearing such impressive things about Varsano’s store for so long, and that he regretted his visit was so belated. There was another guy from a Central European management company who’d recently gotten a good deal on a very large commercial airliner in a V.I.P. configuration; he wanted Varsano to go in on a deal to gut-renovate the interior over the course of a year and then put it back on the market at a substantial markup. Varsano said the aircraft was likely to sell to a head of state, probably in Africa. Or, Varsano clarified, it would sell to the rich friend of a head of state, and then when they took the test run somehow the head of state would happen to be aboard for the ride. That was usually how it worked.', 'At the end of a long day, he came and sat next to me on the trading floor. Almost all of his employees had gone home for the evening, and the room glowed its serene empyreal blue and white against the rush-hour traffic outside. “People think that all of this is just for the rich guys, but it’s really for corporate middle management to run their businesses,” he told me. “That accounts for 70 percent of all flights.” It wasn’t the first time he had mentioned the statistic in defense of plane ownership. It’s the other 30 percent, though, that make his business possible.', 'The only unkind thing I ever heard Varsano say about “the rich guys” had to do with the propensity, especially marked among the younger buyers, to back out of a deal that 10 people had spent months putting together just because they decided at the very last minute that they liked the cut of some other plane’s jib. It was clear, though, that like many professionals who rely for their livelihood on capricious billionaire patronage, he felt some ambivalent mixture of scorn and admiration in equal measure. When populists fail to seethe at a tax bill favorable to the owners of jets, it’s not simply because they should like to think that when at last they own their own jets they’ll enjoy the same privileges; it’s also because each side wants to protect its own billionaires and the crumbs they provide. After all, the seven billion of us are increasingly living on the largess of the 7,000 of them. Varsano was constantly being put into situations where despite his near-unparalleled expertise in aviation he was treated as an elevated TaskRabbit, called in on contract to kick the tires and hang the Picasso. These were constant blows to his hard-won professional esteem.', 'Still, he had great faith in the resources of the extremely wealthy. “There are 230,000” — he said “thousand” with an astonished emphasis — “people in the world with a net worth, excluding their primary residence, of $30 million or more. In the luxury industry you call them ultrahigh-net-worth individuals. When you ask the bank to finance an aircraft, their rule of thumb is that your net worth has to be at least five times greater than the price of the plane. That means even if you’re at the bottom of that list, there are at least 230,000 people who might buy a $6 million airplane — though maybe they’d stop at $4 million, because then you need a million bucks a year to fly it.” No matter how hard his work or positive his outlook, Varsano knew he didn’t stand a chance of paying the rent on his storefront selling $4 million planes. There’s a strong downward pressure on commissions, which regardless of the purchase price of the aircraft usually top out at $1 million — a take of 1.4 percent on a $70 million plane. That world is just so vanishingly small, and there’s so much information on the market, and the principals are so powerful, that somewhere there’s invariably a small-time broker with a desk and a cellphone ready to elbow in for a fee that Varsano would consider an insult to his professional acumen. “There’s always some guy out there willing to do a deal for $25,000,” he complained.', 'And yet Varsano persisted in the belief that his new showroom — and the increased regard that Trump had brought to private aviation — might put him closer to the means of his clients. We sat in his decision-making boardroom at twilight, watching the people and the cars hurry by. Every once in a while, a pedestrian stopped in astonishment to take a picture, or a car would all of a sudden slow and swerve into the bus lane so whoever was inside could gawk.', '“I’ll buy one some day,” Varsano said. “You know, you work in a shoe shop, you should have nice shoes.” He looked down at his own shoes, expensive but heavily scuffed with signs of extended wear.', '“Do I need one?” He glanced out the window and then once more considered his shoes. “I should have one. I’ll get one.”', 'A few weeks into the new year, he told me he felt as if his optimism through the lean times had at last been borne out. “In the U.S., the market is on fire, and you could say it was the Trump bump, or you could say that it was the way this tax plan has energized people to make the jump.” A provision in the law actually allowed jet buyers to write off the entire purchase — effective immediately, for those who might want to claim it on a 2017 return. Varsano was on safari in Africa for Christmas but had received and taken a battery of excited calls, some from clients who sought confirmation that the provision was real, and some from those who needed no convincing and would buy almost anything from him if they could only close the deal in time. That was unfortunately impossible — the process of buying a used plane was just too cumbersome and slow, and involved too many parties — but he sent them on to the manufacturers, who were delighted to offload in a hurry whatever inventory they had in the hangar. When a longtime customer couldn’t get a Gulfstream G550 listed by Varsano for $30 million, he turned around and, in four days, bought one new from the company for $13 million more. Thus the Trump administration had, as Varsano had hoped, brought new license and new zeal to the acquisitive impulses of the jet-possession set, and he was sure he would see his own reward in short order. It would just take some time for their generosity to find its way to his level, and he had to be patient. His windfall would come, and he would take flight.', 'Varsano was born into a generation that understood the airplane for its totemic significance as a technological miracle within mortal reach. The memories of his youth he holds dearest are those that involve getting a rickety aircraft the size of a minibus lost in storm clouds over the Bahamas, the compass slipping slowly, and even now that both airplanes and the economy have been so thoroughly transformed, there was nothing he didn’t know about these machines, and almost nothing he didn’t love. But the brief minute in which they passed through his hands between an oligarch and an executive was the closest he was likely to come to calling one his own, at least in the class he sold — the class that mattered. The sarcophagal fuselage in his window was not, in the end, just an unusually elaborate showpiece. It might only be a diorama, but it’s the plane he can afford, a mock-up designed to his own last wish.']