Good morning. 

Here’s what you need to know:

• Score one for the power of sports.

North and South Korea agreed to have their athletes march together under a “unified Korea” flag at the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics next month. The nations will also field a joint women’s ice hockey team.

The moves are “the most dramatic gesture of reconciliation between the two nations in a decade,” said our Korea correspondent. Above, the 2006 Winter Games in Turin, Italy.

Even as relations thaw, however, President Trump told Reuters that Russia is helping the North evade sanctions and that Pyongyang is getting “closer every day” to being able to fire a missile to the U.S..

_____

• It’s being called one of the worst U.S. intelligence failures in years: More than a dozen C.I.A. informants in China have been killed or arrested since 2010, as Beijing dismantled American spying operations.

Now, an American is suspected of having helped Beijing by identifying the informants. Jerry Chun Shing Lee, who left the C.I.A. in 2007, was apprehended in New York this week. Here’s the affidavit against him.

Intelligence officials fear the case could represent a troubling pattern of China targeting former C.I.A. employees, an easier task than trying to recruit current operatives.

_____

• Stephen Bannon, President Trump’s former chief strategist, has agreed to be interviewed by investigators looking into Russian meddling in the 2016 presidential election. The deal allows him to avoid testifying before a grand jury, a sign that Mr. Bannon is cooperating with the investigation.

Separately, the clock is ticking on a government shutdown. Mr. Trump insists on including funding for a border wall in any spending bill, but Democrats want to extend a program for young undocumented immigrants.

Republicans, meanwhile, are weighing whether to use funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program as a carrot — or stick — to win Democrats’ support.

_____

• The Pentagon sent a new nuclear strategy to President Trump for approval that would permit the use of nuclear weapons in response to a wider range of devastating but non-nuclear assaults on the U.S., including cyberattacks.

The document casts an alarming picture of U.S. national security threats, citing not only Russian and Chinese nuclear advances but also ones by North Korea and, potentially, Iran.

“We must look reality in the eye and see the world as it is, not as we wish it to be,” the draft said.

_____

• “I believe that they’re hopeful that life will get better for them.”

That was the chief executive of the California hospital that is looking after some of the 13 siblings who were rescued by the police on Tuesday.

Their father, David Turpin, had created a school at his nondescript home. But what the authorities found inside over the weekend were his emaciated children, some chained to furniture.

How a family that some described as normal just a few years ago had unraveled so severely, nobody seemed to know. The good news, trauma experts say, is that recovery for the siblings is possible.

_____

• And is that you in that centuries-old work of art?

The Google Arts and Culture app, the most downloaded mobile app over the weekend, has made taking selfies at the museum a bit more personal. It allows the curious-minded to find their doppelgängers in paintings and sculptures.

One museum official said: “Art has the power to transport us through time, and so I think it’s a joy to recognize ourselves, a friend or even a pet, in an artwork from centuries ago.”

_____

• Apple plans to bring back the majority of the $252 billion in cash that it has long held abroad, capitalizing on the Republican tax law. Meanwhile, our technology columnist writes that it’s time for Apple to build a less-addictive iPhone.

• Google is helping  businesses build their own A.I. algorithms, even if they are novices.

• Twenty-one U.S. states have filed a lawsuit against the repeal of net neutrality rules, saying the move was “arbitrary and capricious.”

• Hong Kong stocks closed at their highest level on Wednesday, and U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• In Myanmar, at least seven ethnic Rakhine protesters were killed by the police in Rakhine State, the same region where the U.N. has accused the authorities of ethnic cleansing against the Rohingya minority. [The New York Times]

• A Hong Kong court sentenced Joshua Wong to three months in prison for his role in the 2014 Umbrella Movement. [The New York Times]

• The U.S. is withholding $65 million from the U.N. Palestinian refugee agency for “future consideration.” [The New York Times]

• A U.S.-backed, Kurdish-led border force in Syria has raised alarm in the region. The 30,000-strong force, opposed by Russia, Turkey, Iran and Syria, could ignite a new phase in the war. [The New York Times]

• The Cantopop scene in Hong Kong owes a lot to Dolores O’Riordan, the Cranberries singer who died this week. [Quartzy]

• China will deploy robot submarines to stop oil leaking from an Iranian tanker that sank in the East China Sea. [South China Morning Post]

• From the Australian Open: Marta Kostyuk, a 15-year-old Ukrainian, has reached the third round. “Scary,” she said after advancing. “But, O.K.” [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Battle forgetfulness with these great tips.

• “Should I buy Bitcoin?” is the wrong question.

• Recipe of the day: Skip delivery and make Hunan beef at home.

• “Drag has finally arrived at the place it deserves in pop culture, in a way that cannot be ignored,” one aficionado said. Beneath the glitz, it turns out, drag is a job like many others, with long hours and little immediate return.

• The first rule for Morocco’s bid for the 2026 World Cup: Don’t talk about it. In contrast to the joint bid of the U.S., Mexico and Canada, Morocco hasn’t shared its plans for the world’s biggest sporting event.

• Finally, here’s an image of Wednesday’s front page, and links to our Opinion content and crossword puzzles.

Double your money in just 90 days. Better yet, make it 45.

That’s what Charles Ponzi, who died 69 years ago today, promised investors. In the end, Ponzi swindled more than $15 million in 1920, the equivalent of $191 million today.

The trickery earned Ponzi his own namesake scheme, made notorious by Bernard Madoff, who defrauded clients of more than $50 billion. But the original scheme centered on postal notes.

Ponzi took advantage of international postal reply coupons, which allowed postal customers in one country to buy a coupon redeemable for stamps in another country.

Money was invested through Ponzi’s Security Exchange Company with the idea that he would take investor’s dollars, use them to buy foreign postal coupons, convert each coupon into a 5-cent stamp, and convert the stamps into cash.

But Ponzi never invested in the coupons.

Instead, he collected the money and paid off his investors while waiting for another influx of cash to come in. Millions of dollars began arriving every week from working-class people.

Ponzi’s scheme was eventually exposed, and he later died in a charity hospital in Brazil, with only $75 to his name.

Remy Tumin contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Browse past briefings here. 

We have briefings timed for the Australian, Asian, European and American mornings. And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. You can sign up for these and other Times newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here’s the latest.

1. President Trump delivered his first State of the Union address. We have the video and analysis in our live briefing.

He challenged Democrats to join him in overhauling immigration policies and in rebuilding the nation’s infrastructure. We did a fact-check of his main points.

Representative Joseph P. Kennedy III of Massachusetts was tapped to deliver the Democrats’ response. You may have heard of his family.

____

2. The president is also expected to promote his strategy to win the war in Afghanistan — a goal that has eluded his predecessors since 2001.

On our podcast “The Daily,” our Kabul correspondent discusses the connection between the recent wave of violence there and the U.S. government’s cutoff of security aid to Pakistan.

And a veteran journalist argues in an Op-Ed essay that American military aims in Afghanistan are riddled with contradictions (and illusions) that Pakistan’s spy agency exploits.

____

3. Three corporate giants — Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase — are forming a company that could disrupt U.S. health care.

In a statement noticeably short on details, their chief executives expressed frustration with the expensive and complicated health care system, and confidence that their plan for an independent, tech-focused health care company will be the solution for their employees in the U.S.

Health care and medical experts shared their thoughts about the impact. Above, Amazon’s headquarters in Seattle.

____

4. The Treasury Department angered Moscow with a new name-and-shame list identifying 210 senior Russian political and business figures.

Some are already facing sanctions, and others may be subject to them in the future. “This is definitely an unfriendly act,” said President Vladimir Putin, above with President Trump at the G20 last year.

Democrats, meanwhile, are upset that the administration did not impose additional sanctions to punish the Kremlin for interference in the presidential election.

____

5. Remember that push alert earlier this month that warned Hawaiians that a ballistic missile was headed their way?

It turns out it wasn’t sent by accident. The worker who sent it out misunderstood a supervisor’s directions and thought Hawaii really was under attack.

The F.C.C. faulted the state for not having “reasonable safeguards” in place.

____

6. It sounds like a Hollywood blockbuster. “Day Zero” is coming to Cape Town — but it’s a real threat, one that will surpass anything a major city has faced in years.

“Day Zero” is when the water supply will run dry in the drought-stricken city of four million, possibly as early as April.

The city is hoping for rain and bracing for the impact, in a frightening illustration of the risks of climate change.

____

7. An Australian college student shook security experts around the world this week, when he showed that a fitness app was exposing the location of American military personnel in conflict zones.

We spoke with Nathan Ruser, above, during his summer break in Thailand. Before sharing his findings publicly, he discussed them in a group chat on Twitter, which is playing an increasingly important role in open-source intelligence collection.

____

8. Can the Grammys be saved? 

Ratings were down. Hip-hop was shut out of the major categories. Only one woman collected her own trophy during the broadcast.

And that was all before the head of the Recording Academy said that women needed to “step up” to win awards, setting off a backlash from female artists.

We discussed the brouhaha on our music podcast, “Popcast,” while an Op-Ed writer accused the show of “slut-shaming” Nikki Haley in the “Fire and Fury” segment. Above, Madison Square Garden before the show.

____

9. Ahead of the Winter Olympics, we tagged along on a workout with Lindsey Vonn, the most decorated World Cup ski racer in U.S. history.

She’s had a host of injuries, but she’s training hard and is among the favorites going into Pyeongchang. At her home gym in Vail, Colo., we got a glimpse of her routine, which is heavy on strength training and core work.

She called it “kind of a light day.”

____

10. Finally, a rare “super blue blood moon” will be visible to people in the U.S. early Wednesday morning. Viewers on the West Coast (and in East Asia or Australia) have the best seats. Above, a blood moon over the Capitol last month.

The celestial event occurs as the moon slides behind Earth’s shadow during a lunar eclipse, turning it red “like a giant rose in the predawn sky,” our science correspondent writes.

Your best bet: Look toward the northwest. (Or go online, where NASA will be showing the event online beginning at 5:30 a.m. Eastern.)

Good luck catching a glimpse.

____

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Each Saturday, Farhad Manjoo and Mike Isaac, technology reporters at The New York Times, review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry.

Farhad: Hello, Mike! I hope we can make this a quick chat, as I’ve still got a lot of work to do on my Halloween costume. I’m going as Sexy Donald Trump.

Mike: That is truly terrifying. Speaking of which, I’m going as celebrity chef Guy Fieri. Do you have a bowling shirt with flames on it that I can borrow for the weekend?

Farhad: Oh yeah, I have many. I make so many trips to Flavor Town! On to the news. Let’s start with personal computers. Remember those?

Mike: Like the old Gateway 2000 we had growing up? My favorite thing about those computers was that they came in a box that was painted white and splotchy black like a cow. Because I definitely think of livestock while I’m computing.

Farhad: Yeah, well, apparently not only do personal computers still exist, but if you’ve got a lot of money to spend, they can be pretty awesome.

Take the Surface Studio, which Microsoft unveiled at a press conference in New York this week. It’s, get this, a desktop computer, a device that was first invented in the Jurassic period, I think. But still, it looked pretty sweet. The machine is basically a flat sheet of glass mounted on a hinge, allow creative professionals to use it as a traditional desktop or a large drafting table. Microsoft also showed off a really intriguing accessory for the Studio, a physical dial that you turn to perform very precise functions (like zooming) on the machine.

Mike: I could see that being pretty cool if I had artistic talent. Usually those folks like those big Wacom tablets, but this seems to have a different type of interface — drawing directly on the screen, for example — that could win that crowd over.

Farhad: Microsoft was widely ridiculed when it began building its own computers a few years ago (that first Surface was a stinker). But I have to say, they’ve really done wonders since then. This new Surface — which, alas, starts at $3,000 — was the most interesting computer design I’ve seen in a long time. And that includes the other company that showed off some new computers this week.

Can you guess which company that was?

Mike: Um, Gateway?

Farhad: No, I meant Apple. The Mac company put out a new line of laptops, including a couple of high-end machines that include something called the Touch Bar. It’s a little touch-screen mounted at the top of the keyboard that offers a range of controls that adapt to whatever software you’re using at the moment.

I tried it out at Apple’s press event this week, and in my short demo it looked quite handy, but it’s expensive. Mac machines with the Touch Bar start at $1,800.

Mike: I guess that’s cool. Everyone is criticizing it because you have to look down at the keyboard to use it instead of, say, typing on the buttons we have there now without looking down.

Am I crazy, or am I the only guy who still needs to look at the keyboard in the unlikely event I am required to press F8?

Farhad: Yeah, you’re crazy. Never press F8. Never.

O.K., let’s touch on some earnings reports, because I know you love those. After previously warning investors that it would soon start spending heavily to invest in its core business, Amazon reported that it had kept to its word and spent a lot of dough. But apparently investors weren’t expecting that, despite the company’s warning. So Amazon’s profits came in below analysts’ expectations, which sent the stock price slipping.

But here’s what I found interesting. Amazon, which is the most opaque large company in tech, told investors that it was expecting a remarkably wide range in business performance in the holiday quarter. Operating income could come in as high as $1.25 billion at the high end — or $0 at the low end. Who knows, right?

Basically Amazon is like one of those baked kids in “Dazed and Confused” contemplating the emptiness of it all: Like, hey, man, we could make a whole lot or we could make nothing, man, what does any of it matter on this pale blue dot out here in the middle of nothingness, you know what I mean, man?

Mike: I do, in fact, know what you mean. The philosophy of Matthew McConaughey guides many of my life choices, especially the character he played in that movie.

Anyway, I think at this point Amazon can tell investors whatever they want — “Profit? Who knows? Who cares?” — and Wall Street will eventually get in line and keep singing the company’s praises. Tech companies are good at not caring what analysts think.

Farhad: A couple of companies went on cost-cutting missions this week, though for totally different reasons. Alphabet, the holding company that Google created to manage its many non-search-related businesses, said that it was halting further expansion of its Google Fiber project. Fiber is a plan to build superfast fiber-optic internet access in cities across the country, a mission that has always seemed a little crazy in its expense and ambition. Now, citing a need for greater financial discipline, Google is going to lay off Fiber.

Please please don’t make a joke about digestion.

Mike: Whatever do you mean? I’m just happy to see Google is staying regular. Uh, in its ambitions.

In all seriousness, this is a bummer, because my Comcast connection at home is the definition of terrible and unreliable. No competition within markets makes me very sad, even if I do get to make a fiber joke.

Farhad: And then, finally, there was Twitter, which woke reporters up at 4 a.m. on the West Coast to deliver its financial results. The struggling social network said it would lay off 350 people and would essentially shut down Vine, the once-popular looping video app.

Man, I feel like I think about Twitter’s mortality more frequently than my own. Is there any good news this time?

Mike: Actually, yes! They added more new users than everyone expected, and while their revenue growth is in decline, it still beat analysts’ estimates.

Also, layoffs can be seen a few ways. It’s always painful and you can’t cheer when a company does it. Real people and their lives are affected by them. That being said, Twitter employs 3,900 people, and for the life of me I couldn’t tell you what most of them actually do all day. I’m not sure they could, either. So, perhaps this was something that was a long time coming, as many people around the company will grudgingly admit.

Anyway, they’re doing O.K., considering. The stock price went up, which is good, I guess. Too bad Vine is going away. I’ve spent the past few days watching hilarious and weird vines on my computer. I highly recommend it.

Farhad: I loved the idea of Vine, but I never really watched many. Guess that was the problem. Anyway, see you next week!

Our data is valuable. Each year, it generates hundreds of billions of dollars’ worth of economic activity, mostly between and within corporations — all on the back of information about each of us.

It’s this transaction — between you, the user, giving up details of yourself to a company in exchange for a product like a photo app or email, or a whole ecosystem like Facebook — that’s worth by some estimates $1,000 per person per year, a number that is quickly rising.

The value of our personal data is primarily locked up in the revenues of large corporations. Some, like data brokerages, exist solely to buy and sell sets of that data.

Why should companies be the major, and often the only, beneficiaries of this largess? They shouldn’t. Those financial benefits need to be shared, and the best way to do it is to impose a small tax on this revenue and use the proceeds to build a better, more equitable internet and society that benefit us all.

The data tax could be a minor cost, less than 1 percent of the revenue companies earn from selling our personal data, spread out over an entire industry. Individually, no company’s bottom line would substantially suffer; collectively, the tax would pull money back to the public, from an industry profiting from material and labor that is, at its very core, our own.

This idea is not new. It is, essentially, a sales tax, among the oldest taxes that exist, but it hasn’t been done because assigning a fixed monetary value to our data can be very difficult. For a lot of internet businesses, our personal data either primarily flows through the business or remains locked within.

The flow-through type of business is an internet provider, like AT&T, Comcast and Verizon; the latter is a platform provider, like Facebook or Twitter. Google mostly makes platforms, like its search function and Gmail, but it also lays fiber-optic cable, providing the internet to some municipalities. The company also is making self-driving cars.

It’s perhaps easiest to consider your data as something real and physical, like a car, which, in a sense, it is. It moves around a real, physical infrastructure, owned and operated by the internet providers, and the information is also stored — or parked — on millions of hard drives in vast buildings in usually cold climes. These are owned and operated by the platform makers, including Amazon, which has a very lucrative arm that does nothing but rent out its server space.

When you use the internet, your information travels through the providers’ pipes (roads) and into and out of the platform makers’ servers (parking lots). For the most part, the platform makers rely on your data to improve their products. Google uses its immense trove of real human searches to make better artificial intelligence like transcriptions, translations and self-driving cars.

How much, exactly, these new and innovative businesses are worth is unclear even to Google. But it, and all the platform makers, don’t just improve products with our data. The companies invite advertisers into the platforms, offering to deliver advertisements to exactly the right kind of person, at exactly the right time, based off the platform makers’ intimate knowledge of us, via our data. The internet providers are less nuanced: We pay a monthly fee for access to the pipes the companies lay and the upkeep on them, but the companies also sell our data to brokers, who bundle and sell it to advertisers.

It’s this data brokerage industry that should be the primary, initial focus of the data tax. This industry exists solely to collect our information and sell it as a commodity to retailers, advertisers, marketers, even other data brokerages and government agencies.

It’s this marketplace that traffics in the actual monetary value of our data, and from it we can begin to map just how much that data might be worth overall.

The data brokerage industry generates more than $150 billion in revenue each year, but revenue is reportedly growing so fast that it’s expected to reach $250 billion by 2018. A small tax, say 0.8 percent, on data brokerages based in the United States would generate about $2 billion annually.

Microlevies like this one have been issued successfully before. Over the last decade, the governments of 10 countries, including Chile, France and Niger, have successfully raised more than 1 billion euros in funding from a tax on airline tickets of €1 to €40 depending on the class of ticket.

The money generated has gone toward global H.I.V./AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria eradication programs. In Austria, the government was considering imposing a value-added tax on the big data transactions of social media companies that benefit from personal data, but has been stymied by the complications of assigning a fixed value to such transactions.

Our data is ours, but it also is not ours. We trade it away for so much of our experience on the internet. Money from a data tax could begin to counter this trade imbalance.

The money should go toward improving privacy of our information on the internet, countering identity theft, improving connectivity and internet literacy, all causes that would help create a more equitable internet for all.

PASADENA, Calif. — Too many TV shows to choose from?

You’re not alone.

At least 487 original scripted programs aired in 2017, the latest record-breaking figure for the TV industry, according to data released Friday by the cable network FX.

That was more than the 455 shows that broadcast in 2016, more than the 288 in 2012 and far more than the 182 from 15 years ago.

The staggering growth largely comes from the seemingly endless budget lines that help produce new shows for streaming services. Netflix, for example, has said it will spend a $8 billion on content this year.

In 2013, the year that Netflix’s “House of Cards” premiered, online services distributed only 24 original programs. In 2017, that number skyrocketed to 117.

Others are responsible, too, though. In the last five years, premium cable has seen 45 percent growth in the number of original programs and basic cable networks a 40 percent rise, and even the broadcast networks have grown by 29 percent, according to FX. This doesn’t even include the large number of non-scripted reality or documentary series.

Popular new shows this past year included Hulu’s “The Handmaid’s Tale,” ABC’s “The Good Doctor” and HBO’s “Big Little Lies.” And consider that “Big Little Lies” was supposed to be a one-and-done series, but that it proved so successful that HBO executives — who, like their counterparts at just about every other network, are hungry for content — announced that the show would get a second season. 

Even lesser-known shows are plugging along. “Fuller House,” a Netflix revival of the old ABC family sitcom, released its third season, to little fanfare, last year.

Not long ago, there was real self-reflection within the TV industry about whether too much television was a good thing. With more programming and plenty of other digital distractions like Facebook and Instagram, traditional ratings were falling and executives and producers were openly complaining about just how hard it was to get their shows in front of people. And what to do about bingeing?

“Someone will tweet me, and they will be, like, ‘I watched all four seasons in two days,’” the Australian comedian Josh Thomas said last year about his show, “Please Like Me.” “That took me five years to fill that two days,” he added, with an expletive for emphasis.

Still, the freewheeling spending of the streaming services has prompted more networks to spend more than they usually would. (A respectable drama costs at least $3 million an episode to make.) It is not clear just how many players will be able to sustain that pace.

“There’s no question that the streaming services are putting an enormous amount of pressure on the business model,” John Landgraf, the chief executive of FX, said at a news media event on Friday.

Indeed, last year some cable networks, like WGN and A&E, said they were abandoning scripted content because the finances made no sense. Short of a major hit, it’s difficult to justify the costs. Netflix even began canceling  some original shows last year, including “The Get Down,” a pricey 1970s music drama.

But cancellations have done little to stop the glut of programming.

Netflix keeps ramping up elsewhere, and the proposed merger between 21st Century Fox and Disney all but assures more of a full-out fight for content. Also, three digital titans — Apple, Facebook and Google — are aggressively entering the TV fray. 

With all of this content, there remain three players that make what are perceived to be the best TV shows, at least in the past year.

FX, HBO and Netflix accounted for 55 percent of the shows on critics’ best-of-2017 lists, according to FX. Netflix had 24 percent, HBO 21 percent and FX 10 percent. The rest were distributed by dozens of other TV networks, like NBC, Showtime, Hulu and AMC.