['If you want to change the world, you may want to start a business.', 'I know what you’re thinking: Business is that boring professor armed with spreadsheets and calculators, lecturing you on exciting subjects like “Carefully Evaluating the Competitive Landscape” and “How to Exploit the Market to Produce the Highest Return on Investment.”', 'For some people, business is precisely that, and paying attention to such things is a smart thing to do if you want to open a new dry cleaner or some other worthy enterprise.', 'But business doesn’t have to be just that. The most interesting businesses, at least to me, are the ones whose founders had ideas they wanted, or even needed, to share. And instead of turning to art, science or politics to share them, they used a thing called a business to do it.', 'Let me tell you a little secret: I never did any market analysis to determine whether there was a possible niche for a Sketch Guy, or what kind of return on investment I could get from using Sharpies to sketch harebrained ideas on card stock. I just had a strong feeling: People needed a simpler way to talk about money. And that was the closest thing I ever had to a business plan.', 'You can find a million other examples of entrepreneurs who started businesses with an opinion instead of a spreadsheet. From Steve Jobs at Apple and Yvon Chouinard of Patagonia to my friend in Los Angeles who believed the world needed a different kind of doughnut.', 'My two eldest daughters are starting to think about what they’re going to be when they grow up. They’re concerned about the impact of climate change, and they have strong opinions about what should happen to stop, or at least slow, global warming.', 'As a father, I’m proud of their dream and want to encourage it. They could be environmental scientists, professors, policymakers, lobbyists, cinematographers or journalists. The list goes on and on.', 'But if they can get past Dr. Spreadsheet, they could also be entrepreneurs, and it may be an even more successful and fulfilling path.', 'LOS ANGELES — Back in 1976, when Chad Braverman’s father, Ron, invested a small grubstake in a manufacturing start-up, consumers bought his products at the back of seedy bookstores and scurried out with their purchases concealed in brown paper bags.', 'The younger Mr. Braverman, who was not yet born, grew up ignorant of how his father actually made a living. He would be well into his teens before learning that the company his father ran with a partner was not, as he had long supposed, some sort of criminal enterprise.', '“It was this big mystery no one ever talked about, what my dad was making,” Mr. Braverman, now 35, said recently at the North Hollywood offices of Doc Johnson Enterprises, the family firm. “For a long time I just thought he was in the Mafia.”', 'What Ronald A. Braverman did was make rubber penises. He also manufactured latex vaginas and hand-shaped items devised for anal insertion and a variety of other novelties associated with masturbatory pleasures. In the evolving parlance of successive eras, those items were euphemistically known first as marital aids — as though a vibrator were a couples counselor — and then sex toys and, eventually, “pleasure products.”', 'It was still a shadowy niche business when Mr. Braverman founded Doc Johnson, but the company would go on to become the largest producer in what is estimated to be a $15 billion global industry. And the Bravermans — Ronald, Chad and his sister, Erica, 29 — would become, de facto, the first family of sex toys.', '“Sure, people used to joke about it,” Chad said. “Does your dad really make rubber penises? But then by the time I was in college, it suddenly flipped, and it made me the coolest person around.”', 'On a day of scorching heat and dry Santa Ana winds gusting over the mountains, the two of us sat in an air-conditioned office at the Doc Johnson headquarters in North Hollywood. Bearded and muscled, Mr. Braverman was clad in Acne jeans, a Buck Mason shirt and a pair of pink Common Products sneakers. Behind his desk a wall of bookshelves held the sports trophies he collects, among them signed Michael Jordan, Kobe Bryant and Wilt Chamberlain basketballs.', 'If Mr. Braverman conforms less to a cliché of how a businessman whose company produces Palm Pals and Legendary John Holmes dildos might look than to that of a young venture capitalist, that is partly because pleasure products have become mainstream enough for Los Angeles Magazine to call Doc Johnson “the Procter & Gamble of sex toys.”', 'There is a certain accuracy in the characterization, since almost 75 percent of Doc Johnson products are manufactured in one of seven structures scattered across a sprawling 250,000-square-foot compound, and a “Made in America” emblem is a central element of the Doc Johnson marketing strategy.', 'Here, in the industrial eastern part of the San Fernando Valley, hundreds of workers sculpture, mold, paint, pack and ship the 75,000 products Doc Johnson manufactures weekly. Here, employees in white coats and surgical caps blend six tons of raw material every day, pouring dildos and using air guns to pop each one out of its mold. Here, brass plaques hung in a lobby commemorate employment milestones by generations of mostly Hispanic employees who have raised families on wages earned fabricating devices like Doc Johnson’s best-selling Sasha Grey Masturbator, a lifelike reproduction of the genitals of Ms. Grey, a onetime pornographic star, molded in a casting room on site.', '“We now look at what we’re doing as being about creating an experience, like entertainment,” Mr. Braverman said, adding that his company’s trademarked new Kink by Doc Johnson line of products — rubber sheets, dog collars and assorted fetish gizmos — “is really killing it.”', 'If historically “there was not a lot of brand loyalty and brand awareness” in the sex toy industry, as Mr. Braverman said, that is quickly being modified as manufacturers adapt to an increasingly savvy and fast-growing consumer base.', '“The adult novelty sector is booming,” said Lynn Comella, associate professor of sexuality and gender studies at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas and author of the newly published “Vibrator Nation.” After studying the industry for close to two decades, Professor Comella observed a notable shift in the scale and nature of the business after the financial crisis of 2008.', '“Suddenly porn sales weren’t what they had been,” she said. Piracy and proliferating free online pornographic sites decimated an industry long considered recession-proof. Yet by 2009, at seminars held during the annual Adult Novelty Manufacturers Expo — where, as Forbes noted, retailers connect with “the latest lubes, vibrators and RealDolls” — Ms. Comella found herself attending panels that resembled first-wave-feminist consciousness-raising sessions.', '“They were literally called ‘What Do Women Want?’’’ she said. It seemed, she said, that everyone, from chief executives to buyers for sex toy stores, was eager to discuss how to recalibrate a business that, as Ron Braverman explained, “had gone from being 100 percent male dominated — male manufacturers, male bookstore owners, men going to select the product and bring it home — to being an absolutely female-oriented consumer product.”', 'As abrupt as the shift seemed at the time, its origins were not altogether surprising. In her book, Ms. Comella argues that, absent the early feminist sex educators and entrepreneurs behind such enlightened sex toy shops as Good Vibrations in San Francisco, success would have been less probable for a mainstream manufacturer like Doc Johnson, whose products are now sold by 7,500 brick-and-mortar stores throughout the United States, on sex-oriented sites like PinkCherry and Lovehoney, and, increasingly, by mass-market retailers.', 'Unwittingly or not, the “feminist trend of educating women about their bodies, about their clitorises, about vibrators as a tool of self-empowerment,” Ms. Comella said, ultimately benefited the sex toy business by altering cultural perceptions of it and initiating its migration from XXX bookshops to Walmart, Amazon and Target.', 'Certainly it is hard to imagine that, without the sex-positive credos advanced by female proprietors of early sex toy shops like Good Vibrations, Eve’s Garden and Babeland, Charlotte York’s famous Rabbit episode in Season 1 of “Sex and the City” would have become part of the cultural conversation, let alone “Toyz,” Missy Elliott’s ribald 2003 paean to self-sufficiency, or Abbi Abrams, a character on “Broad City,” and her celebrated strap-on.', 'The success of a “Broad City” plotline involving anal penetration of a more-than-willing male partner by the character portrayed by the show’s co-creator Abbi Jacobson would ultimately inspire Comedy Central, which broadcasts the show, to introduce its own line of plugs and gadgets, most notably, perhaps, a Pegasus Pegging Kit.', 'And it underscored an observation made recently by Susan Colvin, a former college instructor turned sex toy manufacturer. “The younger generation doesn’t have as many hang-ups as ours did,” said Ms. Colvin, whose California-based CalExotics was founded in the 1970s and was responsible for introducing early innovations like vibrators in Easter egg colors, a notion first put forward by Ms. Colvin’s all-female development team.', '“It used to be, ‘Gee, I’m a man, why would you need any of that?’” Ms. Colvin said. “Now it’s the woman doing the consuming, and it’s not so intimidating for a partner when she introduces a toy into a relationship.”', 'As seemingly everywhere else in the culture, it is a millennial generation that is leading the charge in mainstream acceptance of a business few still associate with its back-alley beginnings.', '“Sometimes even people in the industry for decades don’t realize how accepted sex toys now are,” said Erica Braverman, the marketing director at Doc Johnson.', 'As an example, Ms. Braverman cited the pop-up Doc Johnson sponsored last month at the Think Tank gallery in Downtown Los Angeles in collaboration with the artist Whitney Bell. Dildos glowed under black light in a V.I.P. room as D.J.s spun from a set list of modish 1990s tunes. After ogling a prototype sex toy vending machine that will soon be sent on a multicity cross-country tour, the hundreds of guests who started lining up at 7 p.m. struck selfie poses against a backdrop tailor-made for Instagram. Some carried props depicting peach or eggplant emojis, or signs that read, “My Name Ain’t Baby” and “Matriarchy Now.’’', 'Hung from a wire grid on the ceiling were 200 Doc Johnson penis replicas ranging in size from the statistical average of under six inches to dildos of Brobdingnagian scale. “I’m 29, and it’s pretty amazing to me how far feminism has come, that it’s considered cool now for women to take control of their own pleasure and fun,” Ms. Braverman said.', 'Just six years separate the two Braverman siblings, and yet one grew up unaware of what the family business was, while the other went to college knowing that full, freaky disclosure was just a Google search away.', '“When I went to college and told people I’m in the family business, no one blinked an eye in a negative way,” Ms. Braverman said. “It was more like, ‘OMG, what about Christmas? My birthday is coming up. What am I going to get?’”', 'After Bert Weber retired from his three-decade teaching career, he occupied himself with consulting contracts, but kept hunting for more satisfying, full-time work. His son Christian was running a small environmental nonprofit; he, too, was unfulfilled.', 'Christian had dreamed of owning a craft brewery, and father and son enjoyed home brewing together. On a long drive one weekend five years ago, they decided to take the plunge and go into the beer business. “I liked the concept,” Bert said. “I loved the idea of my son for a business partner.”', 'So despite having no experience running a brewery, they created a plan and secured a small-business loan. In 2014, they opened Common Roots Brewing Company in South Glens Falls, N.Y. Now, the brewery has 20 employees and is growing steadily, set to sell 5,000 barrels of beer this year.', 'Setting up a multigenerational enterprise can be a smart way for retired baby boomers and their grown children to combine resources and abilities. The adult children bring hustle, and they’re comfortable with the latest technologies. Parents often offer capital and work experience.', 'That said, the financial risks associated with entrepreneurship are daunting, especially for those in their retirement years. The time to recover from a failed enterprise is short, and the consequences of financial losses may be considerably greater for an older person. On top of that, navigating the transition from parent and child to business partners isn’t always easy. And starting a new business is always stressful.', 'Looking back over the past three years, Christian sounds relieved. “We aren’t living as much hand-to-mouth,” he said. Bert added: “I’m sleeping better now.”', 'Small-business researchers don’t offer much in the way of data on how many new multigenerational start-ups there are like the Webers’. Still, there are a few statistics: 25.4 percent of new businesses formed in 2016 were started by people age 55 to 64, according to the Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation, up from 14.8 percent in 1996.', 'Largely because of two major societal shifts, it’s quite likely that rising numbers of retirement-age parents and their adult children will at least consider making the leap into entrepreneurship together.', 'First, the combination of longer lives and inadequate retirement savings is pushing more older Americans to earn an income well past their early 60s. The search for meaning and money typically involves encore careers, bridge jobs, part-time employment and entrepreneurship.', '“From what I see, the boomer generation gets to the retirement years, and they’re choosing a different version of retirement than the World War II generation,” said Dennis Ceru, adjunct professor of entrepreneurship at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass. Multigenerational entrepreneurship is “one such option,” he said.', 'The second factor is evidence that many boomer parents and their adult children get along well enough to at least entertain the prospect of starting a business.', '“Most boomers have a much more friend-based, adult-to-adult relationship with their children than boomers did with their parents,” says Steve King, partner at Emergent Research, a consulting firm in Lafayette, Calif., that concentrates on the small-business economy. “It’s a big social shift.”', 'For the first time since the 1960s, living with parents is the most common household arrangement for the 18-to-34-year-old age group, reports Pew Research Center. In 2014, more than 32 percent of young adults lived with their parents, up from 20 percent in 1960.', 'Much of that reflects tough economic circumstances and delayed marriage, experts say, but the trend seems broad enough that it may also involve lifestyle choices and good relationships.', 'Comparing intergenerational survey data from the 2000s with data from the 1980s, the authors of the academic study “The baby boomers Intergenerational Relationships” note that in 1988 less than half of parents surveyed offered advice to their grown child in the past month, compared with 89 percent in 2008. In addition, 31 percent provided practical assistance in 1988, compared with 69 percent two decades later.', 'These results echo the key finding from a 2012 survey commissioned by AARP: that young adults “communicate more, interact more, and are comfortable sharing more with their parents compared to boomers when they were young adults.”', 'For parents who go into business with their grown children, a foundation of mutual trust and ongoing communication should improve the odds of success, Mr. King said. Take the experience of the Burches of Hudson, Wis., who decided, over lunch one day, to open a retail store a decade ago.', 'The lunch included Elizabeth, a part-time college professor, then 65; her husband Dan, a retired pastor, then 69; and two of their children, Sarah, 37; and Leah, 43. They debated how to lean against what they saw as increasing polarization in society, while also earning an income. Together, they came up with an idea: a gift shop selling sustainable, often handmade items with what they called bipartisan appeal. Six weeks later, they opened the Purple Tree in Hudson, with the parents putting up some $10,000. (The name plays off purple as a mix of red and blue.)', '“We don’t always agree,” says Sarah, the only family member working full-time at Purple Tree. “But we have managed to successfully agree to disagree and we have been able to reach compromises. We always find a way to talk things out.” The rest of the family shares income from the shop.', 'Less benign factors can play a role in the embrace of multigenerational entrepreneurship. Age discrimination can be a major hurdle to employment for those 50 years and over. At the same time, young people can find it tough to land a job that’s engaging and offers a career path. For both age cohorts, starting a business can often be a better alternative.', 'Those were the realities that Rick Harris and his son Tim faced a few years ago.', 'Rick had worked for years on factory floors in California before building a small business in the Bay Area that specialized in setting up office interiors for start-ups. But business fell off during the financial crisis of 2008.', 'In 2009, the family moved to Minneapolis, where Rick’s wife, Donna, took a job as head of a private high school in Minneapolis. At age 62, Rick started a new commercial interior venture in the Twin Cities, but the market proved tough for an outsider to break into.', 'He said he soon began to ask himself, “How long do I want to work?”', 'At this stage, his son, Tim, was still a student. Tim started college in California but transferred to Concordia College in St. Paul, near his family, and graduated in 2015 with a degree in communication studies.', 'Tim pursued jobs with advertising and public relations agencies in the Twin Cities. He had plenty of interviews, but they went nowhere.', 'After the unsuccessful job hunt, Tim asked his father if he could join him in his still young business, Ideal Commercial Interiors — which was essentially a one-man operation. Rick said yes.', '“What got me rejuvenated is my son wanting to come into the business,” Rick said. “Tim wants to grow the business. He can be a lot more successful than I ever was.”', 'They have their moments, usually sparring over technology — but the partnership is working out. Ideal did between $300,000 to $400,000 in business two years ago, a figure that rose to about $1.3 million last year.', 'For all the successes, entrepreneurship isn’t for everyone. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that about 20 percent of small businesses fail in their first year, and by year five, half close. Those are discouraging odds, especially for older Americans contemplating retirement. In addition, not all families get along. Even for family members who do like one another, dealing with blurred boundaries can be trying.', '“It gets back to the relationship challenge,” Mr. King said.', 'Most important, starting a business typically means putting in long hours, including weekends. Many people of retirement age look forward to more flexible schedules, even if they keep earning an income.', '“Most people choose to scale back and pursue other interests,” Mr. Ceru said.', 'WASHINGTON — It was fight night in Atlantic City — bright lights, big hair, foam fingers — and the luminaries were out in force: the not-yet-president, a future cabinet member, a Gotti-aligned Mafioso and Andre the Giant.', 'Donald J. Trump, nominally the evening’s host, held court ringside, posing beside his first wife, Ivana, and glad-handing the high-rollers. Linda E. McMahon, a new business partner with promise, entertained sponsors off-camera, her company’s annual spectacle nearly ready for prime time.', '“Everybody in the country wanted this event,” Mr. Trump said at the time, promoting the grand 1988 affair, WrestleMania IV, alongside Hulk Hogan. “And we were able to get it.”', 'It did not much matter that the venue was not the Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino, as television viewers were told, but an adjacent convention hall, or that the outcomes of the bouts had been predetermined, as Ms. McMahon would begin arguing to regulators, a back-office masterstroke to sidestep state rules governing true athletic competitions.', 'Appearances were all that registered. The perception of success was success.', 'And in this corner office … in a drab government building between the White House and the Capitol, the president has a collaborator, three decades later, who shares that instinct.', '“Don’t you think that successful people, male or female, have certain personalities?” Ms. McMahon, who now leads the Small Business Administration under Mr. Trump, said in an interview last month.', 'They seem to, in Mr. Trump’s Washington.', 'Since his election, the president has stocked his inner circle with friends, donors and assorted rich people accustomed to his rhythms. But there is no other cabinet member who understands Mr. Trump as Ms. McMahon does.', 'One of the highest-ranking women in government, Ms. McMahon, 69, the former chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, has helped steer a more than $1 billion empire built on branding sizzle and sleight of hand. She found politics late in life as a business-minded Republican during two unsuccessful United States Senate campaigns in Connecticut.', 'She and her husband, Vince — the W.W.E.’s public face and musclebound showman even into his 70s — have been among the most prolific donors to Mr. Trump’s foundation, giving a total of $5 million, according to public filings. Mr. Trump gave $5,000 to Ms. McMahon’s 2012 Senate campaign.', 'She has the distinction of being the only cabinet member whose spouse the president shaved bald and faux-body-slammed, to cheering throngs at a WrestleMania “Battle of the Billionaires” in 2007. (Last year, the president posted on Twitter a doctored version of a clip from the event with the CNN logo superimposed on Mr. McMahon’s head.)', 'In private, Mr. Trump, who had lunch with Ms. McMahon at the White House on Wednesday, has blessed her with his highest praise for a woman in business or politics: “She’s a killer.”', '“He’d say, ‘You have to be,’” recalled Sam Nunberg, a former campaign adviser, “‘being married to Vince.’”', 'Yet if Ms. McMahon’s career has often paralleled Mr. Trump’s — big swings, many misses, huge ratings — it is a sign of the times that a professional wrestling magnate can feel like the cabinet’s least conspicuous member. More precisely, as Democrats in Congress strain to prevent many agency leaders from rolling back Obama-era policies, Ms. McMahon has distinguished herself as the rare high-ranking administration official deemed broadly unobjectionable.', '“Some of these department heads made it pretty clear that their mission was to destroy the agency they were running,” said Senator Chris Murphy, Democrat of Connecticut, who defeated Ms. McMahon in 2012 but supported her nomination by Mr. Trump. “She clearly is interested in making the Small Business Administration work better.”', 'On Ms. McMahon’s watch, the agency’s lending to women-owned businesses has increased by almost 7 percent, according to federal statistics. Disaster loan assistance totaling billions of dollars has been approved for hurricane victims from Texas to Puerto Rico — an agency mandate, Ms. McMahon said, of which she was unaware before her nomination. (That did not stop Ms. McMahon, years before taking the job, from suggesting that the S.B.A. should be eradicated as a stand-alone agency and folded into the Commerce Department.)', 'As the administration pushed for tax cut legislation in Congress, the signature feat of Mr. Trump’s first year, Ms. McMahon was a key emissary and public surrogate, promoting its merits in a national tour of businesses that have benefited from S.B.A.-backed loans.', 'She has handled foam “cheeseheads” in Wisconsin, thrown on a hairnet at a Maine coffee-roaster and made the rounds in an Alaskan village accessible only by boat.', '“As an entrepreneur myself, I can tell you it’s tough,” she said last month at a White House round-table discussion for women in business, delivering what has come to resemble a regular stump speech as she recounted her travels. “What I heard from every small business owner was, ‘If I get a tax cut, I’m going to take that money, I’m going to reinvest it in my business.’”', 'Among her former peers, Ms. McMahon’s position has signaled professional wrestling’s hard-won acceptance in polite society. “It shows W.W.E. has arrived,” said Glenn Jacobs, a wrestler known as Kane who is now running to be mayor of Knox County, Tenn. Mr. Jacobs once co-starred with Ms. McMahon in a scripted bit that found him grabbing her by the throat and appearing to knock her unconscious.', 'Like her boss, Ms. McMahon is familiar with bankruptcy filings.', 'The year was 1976, and her family — laid low by a series of missteps that included an ill-fated Evel Knievel stunt project on a jet-powered sled — appeared to reach financial bottom in West Hartford, Conn.', '“My house was auctioned off,” Ms. McMahon said. “My car was repossessed in the driveway.”', 'The McMahons’ fortunes would turn on a simple truth: Competitions need not be real to be entertaining — presaging the kind of “reality” television that would sustain and enhance Mr. Trump’s celebrity more than two decades later.', 'Wrestling was already the family business on Mr. McMahon’s side. The couple had met in church in North Carolina, when Ms. McMahon, the tomboy daughter of a budget analyst and a shop foreman, was 13. She was 17 when they married, joining him at East Carolina University and graduating early to match his exit year. Once out of school, Ms. McMahon worked as a paralegal in Washington, where Mr. McMahon’s father had founded a regional wrestling company, Capitol Wrestling, enlisting his son as a promoter and television announcer.', 'By the early 1980s, the McMahons had moved to Greenwich, Conn., with higher ambitions and a new plan.', 'Historically, wrestling companies had kept to their own territories, observing certain unofficial rules of the trade. The McMahons resolved to snub such niceties as they bulldozed smaller competitors with national events that earned them deep industry hostility and a swelling market share. Their focus expanded from live events to pay-per-view to action figures.', 'Mr. McMahon became the telegenic ringleader of the enterprise, at ease on camera as the sport’s manic hype man. Ms. McMahon ran the back office, establishing herself — not for the last time — as the even-keeled counterweight to a less-temperate leading man.', 'Behind the scenes, her contributions were essential, according to former colleagues. Perhaps most significantly, Ms. McMahon became the first prominent industry insider to admit publicly that wrestling was scripted, as part of a largely successful bid to bypass a thicket of regulations from state athletic commissions.', '“She did a beautiful job of laying that out and saying, ‘What needs regulation here? This is completely part of entertainment,’” said Dick Ebersol, a former chairman of NBC Sports, who collaborated on projects with the McMahons. “She was no cream puff. That partnership — for it to have worked, they sacrificed everything together. He was Mr. Outside and she was Mrs. Inside.”', 'As the business grew — drawing millions of weekly cable viewers and making megastars out of wrestlers like Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson, “Stone Cold” Steve Austin and Triple H, who is now Ms. McMahon’s son-in-law — Mr. Trump became a friend, partner and occasional combatant in the W.W.E.’s weekly soap opera.', 'He played host for back-to-back WrestleMania events in Atlantic City, and years later took a razor to Mr. McMahon’s head as the wrestling boss wailed. (Mr. Trump’s tale of the tape that night included this rendering of his weight: “less than Rosie O’Donnell.”)', 'In 2009, Mr. Trump feigned an acquisition of the company’s flagship program, “Monday Night Raw,” appearing via satellite to deliver the fake news — which, taken seriously by some investors, set off a brief stock price tumble before the matter was clarified.', 'In 2013, he was inducted into the W.W.E. Hall of Fame, tuxedoed and smirking, as the audience jeered, a badge of honor in the pro wrestling world. “Nobody ever got booed like he did,” said Dave Meltzer, the longtime editor of Wrestling Observer Newsletter, which covers the industry.', 'Ms. McMahon played down the depth of any personal connection to Mr. Trump through the years. “We’ve been business friends,” she said. “We weren’t family friends. Our families didn’t go out to dinner.”', 'The W.W.E. makes no such distinction. Mr. Trump is listed on the website among the company’s “superstars,” with a curated accounting of career achievements.', '“Former owner of ‘Monday Night Raw.’”', '“2013 W.W.E. Hall of Fame Inductee.”', '“45th President of the United States.”', 'For decades, Ms. McMahon’s on-camera work had been limited but memorable.', 'There was the story line that had her emerging from a coma to kick her cheating husband in the groin. And the time she went flying to the mat after her daughter smacked her in the face. And the evening when Ms. McMahon recoiled, pulling away, as another man sidled up, called her a “big-breasted beauty” and forcibly kissed her as the crowd roared.', '“I’ve seen myself, on the very few times I was on TV with the W.W.E.,” Ms. McMahon said in the interview. “I knew I should stick to my day job.”', 'By 2010, that day job became more visible: Ms. McMahon, spending tens of millions of dollars of her own money, left the company to target open Senate seats in consecutive election cycles.', 'Her pitch seems familiar now: a brash, unconventional business titan was the cure for what ailed Washington. But her task was formidable, requiring a political newcomer in a solid-blue state to embrace the biography that made her unique and distance herself from its excesses. She did this while struggling to project both toughness and compassion standing astride three institutions — business, politics and wrestling — dominated by men.', '“Part of the challenge was conveying this message that the product that she sold wasn’t real,” said Ed Patru, her communications director in 2010. “The business side, creating a global brand — that, in fact, was real.”', 'Campaign ads tracked her rags-to-riches story. One tried, semi-plausibly, to establish her as a sort of internal industry censor, with Ms. McMahon’s daughter, Stephanie, saying her mother “was instrumental in making the W.W.E. more family-friendly.”', 'Inevitably, though, wrestling’s underside came to the campaign fore: questions about safety shortcomings and the deaths of several relatively young wrestlers; accusations of sexual harassment against top executives from some of the company’s “ring boys”; a congressional investigation that found “pervasive” steroid use across an industry refusing to address the problem.', 'Ms. McMahon impressed Republican operatives as a quick study in retail politics, charming residents in person with a southern lilt and an easy laugh. But she lost by 12 points to Richard Blumenthal, her Democratic opponent.', 'When another seat opened two years later, Ms. McMahon tried again, against longer odds, in a presidential election year among Connecticut voters who broadly supported the Democrat in the White House.', '“I said, ‘On a good day, you have a 40 percent chance,’” Chris LaCivita, a top adviser, recalled telling Ms. McMahon as she weighed another run. “She said, ‘So you mean there’s a chance?’”', 'She would lose by 12 points again.', 'Ms. McMahon’s ultimate path to Washington ran through an old friend.', 'Her embrace of Mr. Trump in the 2016 campaign had been halting. He was not her first choice, she allowed in interviews, and some of Mr. Trump’s disparaging comments about women struck her as “deplorable.” But by the fall, she had poured at least $7 million into so-called super PACs that supported him.', 'Three weeks after the election, Ms. McMahon was summoned to Trump Tower for a meeting. A week after that, she had the job.', 'Her confirmation hearing, held amid a blitz of cabinet proceedings for far more contentious nominees, was incident-free, bordering on breezy. Her two former Democratic opponents in Connecticut, Mr. Blumenthal and Mr. Murphy, introduced her.', 'Ms. McMahon quickly disavowed her past suggestion that the Small Business Administration need not stand on its own. “When I was asked if I supported merging S.B.A. into Commerce, I really was not focused on S.B.A. or Commerce,” she told lawmakers. She simply liked the idea, broadly, of merging agencies to save money at the time. President Barack Obama had in fact floated the proposal himself, even as he elevated the position of S.B.A. head to cabinet-level status.', '“It is a really critical thing that it has a seat at the table,” said Karen Mills, a small business administrator under Mr. Obama, cheering the Trump administration’s extension of the practice. “I think it is now well understood that it needs to continue.”', 'Through Ms. McMahon’s early days in Washington, she found accommodations, like many new imports to the capital, at the Trump International Hotel. “Convenient, food was good, service was good,” she said.', 'But since assuming the role, she has spent a large chunk of her time on the road, visiting the agency’s local offices and sitting for business gatherings on a kind of meet-and-greet tour that resembles a campaign schedule.', 'She has strolled through a chocolaterie in Iowa (the company had grown with the help of three S.B.A.-backed loans), acquired a bobblehead doll from a grain company in Oregon (it now sits on a shelf in her office) and rerouted her team to a Dairy Queen in Pennsylvania after learning the identity of an attendee at a local chamber of commerce event.', '“She kind of looked at me and said, ‘Are you the Dairy Queen person?’” said Judy Lynn-Craig, a franchisee for the ice cream chain. “She had read our bios.”', 'Ms. McMahon’s more consequential work has come in extreme weather, briefing the cabinet on recovery efforts for storm-affected businesses and overseeing the allocation of aid. The agency said it had approved more than 100,000 loans for nearly $6 billion in disaster-loan assistance for victims of Hurricanes Harvey, Irma and Maria, outpacing the loan totals and processing times from Hurricane Sandy and Hurricane Katrina. (The agency issues loans directly after natural disasters; in nonemergencies, it guarantees a portion of a loan in the event of default, reducing the risk for lenders.)', 'If Ms. McMahon has retained any discomfort with Mr. Trump’s behavior since taking office, the two seem to have had little friction, in part because her agency’s mission is less politically fraught than some others’.', 'Reminded that Washington’s power structure now included two prominent W.W.E. veterans, Ms. McMahon disputed any suggestion that the capital had come to resemble a professional wrestling scene. “Oh my goodness,” she said. “I don’t think that’s it.”', 'But the president has not forgotten their shared history.', '“She has been incredible,” Mr. Trump told guests at a White House event last summer. “Known her for a long time.”', 'The House Republicans’ tax overhaul bill calls for reducing the tax burden on people who own small businesses like Steve’s Bike Shop — not giving breaks to professional athletes like Stephen Curry, the N.B.A. All-Star.', 'The rewrite of the tax code, which the House passed on Thursday, proposed a 25 percent tax rate for small businesses for owners who report their profits as income on their tax returns. It was slightly higher than the 20 percent rate for corporations but a break from the top individual rate of 39.6 percent.', 'In the end, though, the bill might not help the fictional Steve or the real Steph, who were named in the bill. But Mr. Curry’s wife, Ayesha, a TV personality who receives royalties and licensing fees from businesses she represents, could get a tax break. The reason is that the proposals for taxing small-business owners — whose companies are called pass-through entities, because the income passes through to their personal tax returns — hinge on the ownership of those entities.', 'Those who make money passively — by owning part of a pass-through entity they do not run or receiving endorsements and licensing agreements through a passive vehicle — could structure their payments to achieve a lower tax rate. Those who are actively running a business that is structured as a pass-through — for instance, a limited liability company, an S corporation or a partnership — will not see as great a reduction in taxes and may even see an increase in certain states.', '“It’s not how much you make,” said Edward Reitmeyer, partner at Marcum, a national accounting firm. “It’s how you make it.”', 'In other words, the House bill may seem like a tax cut for small businesses, but it is not likely to bring much relief to many of those owners, and it is certainly not comparable to what was proposed for large corporations. And some professions, like consultants, lawyers, doctors and other professional services companies, are not even eligible for the lower pass-through rate.', '“What’s really going to happen is, people are going to change their behavior based on this tax act,” Mr. Reitmeyer said, like rethinking their business tax structure.', 'The House bill says that up to 30 percent of business income can be taxed at the lower 25 percent rate, with the rest at the personal income tax rate. At the highest level, this is a blended tax rate of 35.22 percent, at least for businesses that qualify. That is a far cry from the 20 percent proposed for corporations.', 'The Senate proposal, which is wending its way through the committee process, offers the possibility of a deduction of business income of up to 17.4 percent. But it still has hurdles: This week, it lost one Republican vote, when Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin opposed the different treatment for corporations and pass-through entities.', 'What becomes of the two bills when they get reconciled is going to determine whether small-business owners will pay less in taxes. But it will also determine what resources they will have to invest in their businesses and still maintain their lifestyles.', 'The savviest business owners will begin by calling a sophisticated accountant or tax lawyer. These advisers already have plans to take advantage of lower tax brackets and shift income away from areas where it would be taxed at a higher rate.', 'Jay Hatfield, the chief executive and co-founder of Infrastructure Capital Advisors, which runs two mutual funds and three hedge funds in New York, is preparing to change the tax structure of his business. “The language that I saw implied that businesses like ours won’t get any relief under the rules because financial service companies are under professional services,” he said.', 'He plans to convert his pass-through business to a C corporation, which will allow him to pay lower taxes and have more money to invest in the business. He has five employees and plans to hire two more.', '“It makes sense from an economic perspective,” Mr. Hatfield said. “You’re increasing the incentive to save and invest and decreasing the relative incentive to consume.”', 'He said his decision was not driven entirely by taxes, but he was persuaded to make the transition now by what could be a huge difference between paying his taxes as a corporation and as an individual.', '“It’s like you have to incorporate in New York State,” he said, because of the great difference between the top individual tax rate and the corporate tax rate.', 'There are ways for small-business owners to manipulate the proposals solely to save on taxes.', 'Mr. Reitmeyer is working on creating a structure for a lending company that would allow bonuses for its senior executives to be taxed at the much lower 25 percent rate.', 'This would be done by dividing the assets of the firm between the existing corporation and a new pass-through company. The senior executives would be passive investors in that new company, which could then pay them “distributions” — or bonuses — at the 25 percent rate. Other employees, however, would still pay regular tax rates on their income.', 'Business owners in the Northeast and in California who pay state and local taxes are able to deduct those payments on their federal taxes, but they might see those deductions eliminated in the final tax bill. Structures like the C corporation will be even more appealing as a way for business owners to reduce their tax bill. Mr. Reitmeyer said the moves could hark back to the early 1980s, a heyday for tax-avoiding structures.', 'Yet for many small businesses, owners do not earn enough to benefit from the 25 percent tax rate. If the proposed 17.4 percent deduction in the Senate bill survives, small-business owners could incorporate and benefit from that deduction.', 'One amendment in the proposed bill reduces the bottom rate to 9 percent, from 12 percent, for smaller businesses. But the bigger advantage remains for those who can go to 25 percent from 39.6 percent.', 'If all of this seems confusing, take heart — it is equally frustrating to tax experts. “The pass-through section is the worst piece of legislation I’ve seen in 30 years,” said Steven M. Rosenthal, a former member of the Joint Committee on Taxation and a fellow at the Tax Policy Center in Washington.', '“It’s addressing a non-problem,” Mr. Rosenthal added. Owners of pass-through businesses believe they deserve a lower tax rate, he said, but they could elect to be a corporation tax-free if they wanted.', 'He pointed out that the same economic activity could now be taxed at three different rates, depending on whether it was generated by a company, a pass-through entity or an individual.', 'Another worrying aspect is the rush by Republicans to enact tax change — previous efforts have taken years — which could lead to mistakes that the Internal Revenue Service will need time to correct.', '“The loopholes and glitches will be preserved until the I.R.S. comes out with technical corrections,” Mr. Rosenthal said. “They take years, sometimes a decade, to get to technical corrections.”', 'Worse, from a behavioral standpoint, is what happens if certain provisions are delayed for a year or two while others are enacted in a few months. People will take losses in one year to maximize the tax benefit and wait to sell a company until the tax rate drops.', '“They’re trying to fit all these goodies into a $1.5 trillion package, and it doesn’t fit,” said Ivan A. Sacks, head of the private client and tax group and chairman of the law firm Withers Worldwide. “So what they’re doing is waiting on some of these changes. That’s not stimulative.”', 'It may not be for business owners, but it’s sure to give accountants and lawyers a rush of work.']