For much of the past week, Facebook has been embroiled in a controversy involving Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm with ties to Donald J. Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign, and how the firm improperly obtained and exploited personal data from 50 million Facebook users.

On Wednesday, following widespread questions about his whereabouts, Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, spoke with two New York Times reporters, Sheera Frenkel and Kevin Roose, about the controversy and the steps he was taking to make the social network less prone to abuse.

Below is a transcript of the conversation, edited for length and clarity.

Sheera Frenkel: Did it come as a surprise to you, the user response to the news that Cambridge Analytica had accessed this trove of data?

Mark Zuckerberg: Privacy issues have always been incredibly important to people. One of our biggest responsibilities is to protect data. If you think about what our services are, at their most basic level, you put some content into a service, whether it’s a photo or a video or a text message — whether it’s Facebook or WhatsApp or Instagram — and you’re trusting that that content is going to be shared with the people you want to share it with. Whenever there’s an issue where someone’s data gets passed to someone who the rules of the system shouldn’t have allowed it to, that’s rightfully a big issue and deserves to be a big uproar.

Frenkel: It took quite a few days for your response to come out. Is that because you were weighing these three action points that you noted in your post?

Zuckerberg: The first thing is, I really wanted to make sure we had a full and accurate understanding of everything that happened. I know that there was a lot of pressure to speak sooner, but my assessment was that it was more important that what we said was fully accurate.

The second thing is, the most important thing is that we fix this system so that issues like this don’t happen again. It’s not like there aren’t going to be other different kind of things we’ll also have to fix. But when there’s a certain problem, we have a responsibility to at least make sure we resolve that problem.

So the actions here that we’re going to do involve first, dramatically reducing the amount of data that developers have access to, so that apps and developers can’t do what Kogan did here. The most important actions there we actually took three or four years ago, in 2014. But when we examined the systems this week, there were certainly other things we felt we should lock down, too. So we’re going ahead and doing that.

Even if you solve the problem going forward, there’s still this issue of: Are there other Cambridge Analyticas out there, or other Kogans who, when the platform worked a certain way in the past, were there apps which could have gotten access to more information, and potentially sold it without us knowing, or done something that violated people’s trust? We also need to make sure we get that under control. That’s why we spent a lot of time figuring out, O.K. here’s what it’s going to take to do a full investigation of every app that got access to a large amount of information before we changed the platform policies to dramatically reduce the data access that developers had. For any app that we uncover that has any suspicious activity, we’re going to go do a full forensic audit, and make sure we have the capacity to do that, to make sure that other developers aren’t doing what Kogan did here.

The third thing is, it’s really important that people know what apps they’ve authorized. A lot of people have been on Facebook now for five or 10 years, and sometimes you signed into an app a long time ago and you may have forgotten about that. So one of the steps we’re taking is making it so apps can no longer access data after you haven’t used them for three months.

But it’s also just really important to put in front of people a tool of, here are all the apps you’ve connected to and authorized, here’s an easy way to deauthorize them, to revoke their permission to get access to your activity.

Kevin Roose: Is Facebook planning to notify the 50 million users whose data was shared with Cambridge Analytica?

Zuckerberg: Yes. We’re going to tell anyone whose data may have been shared.

Now, there’s a question of whether we have the exact record in our systems today of who your friends were on that day when there was access three and a half or four years ago, so we’re going to be conservative on that and try to tell anyone whose data may have been affected, even if we don’t know for certain that they were. It’s likely that we’ll build a tool like we did with the Russian misinformation investigation, that anyone can go to it and see if their data was affected by this.

Roose: Do you have a preliminary estimate of how many apps you’ll be investigating?

Zuckerberg: It will be in the thousands.

Frenkel: Were those app developers notified that you’ll be investigating this yet?

Zuckerberg: Just when I posted. And we’ll be reaching out in the near term.

Frenkel: Are you going to be hiring people to help conduct those investigations?

Zuckerberg: Yes, I would imagine we’re going to have to grow the team to work on this.

Roose: You mentioned a contract that developers will have to sign in order to ask anyone for access to broader profile information. What will be the terms of that contract, and what will be the penalties for violating it?

Zuckerberg: So, the important thing there is that it’s a high-touch process. The specific point we were trying to make is that it’s not going to be some terms of service that a developer can sign up for just on their computer when developing something. I guess technically, that would be a contract as well.

The point of what we’re trying to do here is to create a situation where we have a real person-to-person relationship with any developer who is asking for the most sensitive data. That doesn’t mean that — if you’re a developer and you want to put Facebook Login on your website, you can do that. If you want to get access to ask people for their religious affiliation, or their sexual orientation, for data that could be very sensitive, we want to make sure we have a clear relationship with those people.

Frenkel: We understood that Cambridge Analytica had reached out to Facebook and asked that its ban on the platform be reconsidered. Are you giving any thought to allowing Cambridge Analytica back in?

Zuckerberg: The first thing we need to do is conduct this full forensic audit of the firm, that they don’t have any people’s data from our community and that they’ve deleted anything, including derivative data, that they might have. We’re working with the regulator in the U.K. on this, so our forensic audit was actually paused in the near term to cede the way for the ICO there to do their own government investigation. We’re certainly not going to consider letting them back onto the platform until we have full confirmation that there’s no wrongdoing here.

Roose: There were reports as far back as 2015 that Cambridge Analytica had access to this data set. Why didn’t you suspend them then?

Zuckerberg: So, we actually heard, I think it was at the end of 2015 — some journalists from The Guardian reached out to us and told us what you just said. And it was not just about Cambridge Analytica, it was about this developer, Aleksandr Kogan, who had shared data with them.

We took action immediately at that point. We banned Kogan’s app from the platform, we demanded that Kogan and Cambridge Analytica and a couple other parties that Kogan had shared the data with would legally certify that they didn’t have the data, and weren’t using it in any of their operations. They gave us that formal certification. At the time, they told us they never had gotten access to raw Facebook data, so we made that decision.

Frenkel: In retrospect, do you wish you had demanded proof that the data had been deleted?

Zuckerberg: Yes. They gave us a formal and legal certification, and it seems at this point that that was false.

Again, we haven’t done our full investigation and audit yet so I can’t say definitively that they actually have data. I’ve just read all the same reports that you have, including in The New York Times, that says that journalists have seen evidence that they have the data, which is a strong enough signal for us to go on, and take action here.

That’s the basic driver behind us now needing to go and do a full investigation into any app that had access to a large amount of data before we locked down the platform policies in 2014. Just having folks tell us that they were using the data correctly, I think, does not satisfy our responsibility to our community to protect their data.

Frenkel: Are you actively looking at some of these dark web data brokers that have been in news reports recently, that say that other independent researchers are potentially trading in this data?

Zuckerberg: Yes, we’re investigating that too.

Roose: Are you worried about the #DeleteFacebook campaign that’s been going around? Have you seen meaningful numbers of people deleting their accounts, and are you worried that will be a trend?

Zuckerberg: I don’t think we’ve seen a meaningful number of people act on that, but, you know, it’s not good. I think it’s a clear signal that this is a major trust issue for people, and I understand that. And whether people delete their app over it or just don’t feel good about using Facebook, that’s a big issue that I think we have a responsibility to rectify.

Frenkel: We’re now heading into the 2018 midterms. Could you speak about what Facebook is going to do ahead of the 2018 midterms to make people feel more confident that the platform won’t be used this way again?

Zuckerberg: This is an incredibly important point. There’s no doubt that in 2016, there were a number of issues including foreign interference and false news that we did not have as much of a handle on as we feel a responsibility to for our community.

Now, the good news here is that these problems aren’t necessarily rocket science. They’re hard, but they’re things that if you invest and work on making it harder for adversaries to do what they’re trying to do, you can really reduce the amount of false news, make it harder for foreign governments to interfere.

One of the things that gives me confidence is that we’ve seen a number of elections at this point where this has gone a lot better. In the months after the 2016 election, there was the French election. The new A.I. tools we built after the 2016 elections found, I think, more than 30,000 fake accounts that we believe were linked to Russian sources who were trying to do the same kind of tactics they did in the U.S. in the 2016 election. We were able to disable them and prevent that from happening on a large scale in France.

In last year, in 2017 with the special election in Alabama, we deployed some new A.I. tools to identify fake accounts and false news, and we found a significant number of Macedonian accounts that were trying to spread false news, and were able to eliminate those. And that, actually, is something I haven’t talked about publicly before, so you’re the first people I’m telling about that.

I feel a lot better about the systems now. At the same time, I think Russia and other governments are going to get more sophisticated in what they do, too. So we need to make sure that we up our game. This is a massive focus for us to make sure we’re dialed in for not only the 2018 elections in the U.S., but the Indian elections, the Brazilian elections, and a number of other elections that are going on this year that are really important.

Frenkel: The Times reported that [Facebook chief security officer Alex] Stamos will be leaving toward the end of this year. Is there a broader plan for how Facebook is going to structure security on its platform ahead of all these important elections?

Zuckerberg: Sure. One of the important things we’ve done is, we want to unify all of our security efforts. And you reported on a reorg around Alex Stamos, and I’ll say something about him in a second. He’s been a very valuable contributor here and was a really central figure in helping us identify the foreign interference with Russia. And I think he has done very good work, and I’m hopeful he’ll be engaged for a while here on that.

One of the big things we needed to do is coordinate our efforts a lot better across the whole company. It’s not all A.I., right? There’s certainly a lot that A.I. can do, we can train classifiers to identify content, but most of what we do is identify things that people should look at. So we’re going to double the amount of people working on security this year. We’ll have more than 20,000 people working on security and community operations by the end of the year, I think we have about 15,000 now. So it’s really the technical systems we have working with the people in our operations functions that make the biggest deal.

The last thing I’d add on this. Take things like false news. You know, a lot of it is really spam, if you think about it. It’s the same people who might have been sending you Viagra emails in the ’90s, now they’re trying to come up with sensational content and push it into Facebook and other apps in order to get you to click on it and see ads. There are some pretty basic policy decisions we’ve made, like O.K., if you’re anywhere close to being a fake news site, you can’t put Facebook ads on your site, right? So then suddenly, it becomes harder for them to make money. If you make it hard enough for them to make money, they just kind of go and do something else.

Roose: Is the basic economic model of Facebook, in which users provide data that Facebook uses to help advertisers and developers to better target potential customers and users — do you feel like that works, given what we now know about the risks?

Zuckerberg: Yeah, so this is a really important question. The thing about the ad model that is really important that aligns with our mission is that — our mission is to build a community for everyone in the world and to bring the world closer together. And a really important part of that is making a service that people can afford. A lot of the people, once you get past the first billion people, can’t afford to pay a lot. Therefore, having it be free and have a business model that is ad-supported ends up being really important and aligned.

Now, over time, might there be ways for people who can afford it to pay a different way? That’s certainly something we’ve thought about over time. But I don’t think the ad model is going to go away, because I think fundamentally, it’s important to have a service like this that everyone in the world can use, and the only way to do that is to have it be very cheap or free.

Roose: Adam Mosseri, Facebook’s head of News Feed, recently said he had lost some sleep over Facebook’s role in the violence in Myanmar. You’ve said you’re “outraged” about what happened with Cambridge Analytica, but when you think about the many things that are happening with Facebook all over the world, are you losing any sleep? Do you feel any guilt about the role Facebook is playing in the world?

Zuckerberg: That’s a good question. I think, you know, we’re doing something here which is unprecedented, in terms of building a community for people all over the world to be able to share what matters to them, and connect across boundaries. I think what we’re seeing is, there are new challenges that I don’t think anyone had anticipated before.

If you had asked me, when I got started with Facebook, if one of the central things I’d need to work on now is preventing governments from interfering in each other’s elections, there’s no way I thought that’s what I’d be doing, if we talked in 2004 in my dorm room.

I don’t know that it’s possible to know every issue that you’re going to face down the road. But we have a real responsibility to take all these issues seriously as they come up, and work with experts and people around the world to make sure we solve them, and do a good job for our community.

It’s certainly true that, over the course of Facebook, I’ve made all kinds of different mistakes, whether that’s technical mistakes or business mistakes or hiring mistakes. We’ve launched product after product that didn’t work. I spend most of my time looking forward, trying to figure out how to solve the issues that people are having today, because I think that’s what people in our community would want.

Good Thursday Here’s what we’re watching:

• Tariffs will test investors’ resolve.

• Trump on Tariffs: “If they charge us, we charge them.”

• The stock market is proving Gary D. Cohn right.

• China tech stocks are also tumbling

• Dropbox has priced its I.P.O.

Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.

An unorthodox action by President Trump unsettles investors, but after a freakout, their optimism returns and the stock market moves higher.

But will investors shrug off President Trump’s tariffs on China?

The stock market plunged Thursday after Mr. Trump announced the measures against China. Since mid-February, when the Trump administration laid out its case for steel and aluminum tariffs, the S.&P. 500 is down 3.2 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average is off nearly 5 percent.

Until now, investors might have thought they could take Mr. Trump’s trade pronouncements in stride. After all, many countries have won a reprieve from the steel and aluminum tariffs. And as Edward Alden of the Council on Foreign Relations wrote Thursday of the anti-China measures, “The administration is delaying the action to solicit comments from affected U.S. companies, and it is quite possible the final tariffs will fall short of the threats.”

Just as the Trump administration has stepped back from quickly imposing the steel and aluminum tariffs, it may soften its stance if China suggests that its open to negotiations. The world could relax.

But China may not budge. As our colleague Steven Lee Myers reports, President Xi Jinping has so far managed to navigate Mr. Trump’s rhetoric while maintaining a strong nationalist image at home. Yet Mr. Trump’s tariff announcement, along with moves perceived by the Chinese as humiliating, may prompt China to retaliate with force.

Investors would then scramble to quantify the economic repercussions. They might not be terrible.

Some American companies, like computer chip makers, get substantial revenue from China. But on average, companies in the S.&P. 500 index derive a small share of their sales from the country.

And some investors may take a long view, believing that U.S. companies have long been treated unfairly in China. A trade fight that eventually relaxes some of those disadvantageous conditions could bolster the long-term prospects of those firms. And if the U.S. is able to recruit other countries to its cause, China may relent.

Still, much could go wrong. A true test of investor sentiment will come if China fights back. Markets could fall further, creating a financial chain reaction that dampens the wider economy. A lot would depend on how Mr. Trump responds to Chinese actions. Would he up the ante?

“It’s genuinely hard to predict how this will turn out,” said Scott Kennedy, an expert in Chinese trade at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, “whether one side will back down or whether it will spiral into a trade war.”

— Peter Eavis

Here are the details:

• The data-storage and collaboration company sold 36 million shares at $21 apiece, its expected range of $18 to $20 a share.

• At that price, the offering raised $756 million.

• At $21 a share, the company has a market value of gave Dropbox a market value of $9.2 billion.

The context

The demand for Dropbox’s shares suggests investors overcame any concern about daunting competition from the likes of Microsoft, Google and Amazon, all of which provide cloud storage services. A successful debut could pave the way for other unicorns to soon go public.

President Trump said he would impose about $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports as the White House moved to punish China for what it says is a pattern of co-opting American technology and trade secrets and robbing companies of jobs and billions of dollars in revenue.

The tariffs will target 1,300 lines of Chinese goods — everything from shoes and clothing to electronics — the NYT reports administration officials said.

Mr. Trump, the officials added, will also direct the Treasury Department to impose restrictions on Chinese investment in American technology companies, a practice that they said the Chinese government uses to develop its own “national champions” in cutting-edge industries like A.I. and autonomous vehicles.

“The end objective of this is to get China to modify its unfair trade practices,” Everett Eissenstat, the deputy director of the National Economic Council, told reporters.

Peter Navarro, the director of the White House National Trade Council and an architect of the measures, cast the tariffs as part of a seminal shift in how the U.S. views China. Rather than trying to draw it into the rules-based international economic order — a policy that dates back to Richard Nixon and Henry Kissinger — the U.S. now regards China as a strategic competitor, bent on eroding American security and prosperity.

— Mark Landler and Jim Tankersley

Before he said he was leaving his White House position earlier this month, Mr. Cohn reportedly warned that protectionist trade policies could jeopardize the stock rally that has taken place since Donald Trump became president. After Mr. Trump announced tariffs on steel and aluminum, the stock market slid, but soon recovered those losses, reassuring the president that his decision to introduce tariffs was right.

On Thursday, the Trump administration announced trade restrictions against China. The news appeared to weigh on markets. So, how have stocks done since important dates in the trade skirmish?

One important milestone was the Commerce Department’s announcement last month that suggested the Trump administration was serious about introducing steel and aluminum tariffs. The S.&P. 500 index is down 2.3 percent since the day before that announcement. Mr. Trump actually announced plans for those tariffs on March 1. The S.&P. 500 is down 1.7 percent since Feb. 28.

The Dow Jones industrial average has done a lot worse, however. It is down 3.7 percent since the Commerce Department’s announcement, and 3.1 percent since Mr. Trump announced his intentions. The decline encapsulated how trade tension might hurt specific businesses, in particular, Boeing’s.

— Peter Eavis

Much of the Dow’s underperformance can be traced to the aircraft maker’s stock.

The Trump administration’s trade policies have hit Boeing, the most-heavily weighted stock in the Dow, particularly hard.

Aluminum makes up about 80 percent of the weight of most commercial aircrafts, according to Brooke Sutherland and David Fickling of Gadfly. That means tariffs on imported aluminum would likely raise Boeing’s costs more than its competitors. Boeing also views China, the main target of the Trump administration’s protectionist trade policies, as an important growth market. The country is set to overtake the U.S. as the biggest aviation market by 2022, Ms. Sutherland and Mr. Fickling write.

China could target Boeing if the country decides to retaliate against the U.S.

Boeing is down 3.6 percent today, shaving more than 80 points off the blue-chip index. Since the Commerce Department released its report calling for tariffs on imported steel and aluminum, the stock is down 8.7 percent, worth more than 200 points off the Dow.

Boeing drove the Dow higher for much of Mr. Trump’s presidency, more than doubling during his first 12 months in office.

Boeing’s climb has had an outsized impact on the Dow. The index is price-weighted, meaning that the higher priced stocks have a bigger pull on the index.

MoneyBeat’s Ben Eisen noted that at the end of January, the stock accounted for 9.4 percent of Dow, up from 6 percent a year earlier. By comparison, Boeing makes up just 0.8 percent of the market capitalization weighted S.&P. 500.

Chinese tech stocks are also tumbling.

Shares of Alibaba are off 4.2 percent, Tencent 5 percent and Baidu 4.3 percent in the wake of the Trump administration’s plan to impose about $60 billion worth of annual tariffs on Chinese imports.

That is much worse than their American counterparts. Amazon, Facebook and Google’s parent Alphabet are down between 1.2 percent and 2.2 percent by comparison.

Shares of Baidu, Alibaba and Tencent — collectively known as BAT — have soared over the past year, pushing their combined market value above $1 trillion.

As these companies have grown, so have their ambitions. All three have moved to expand beyond their core business and home market and have aggressively invested in Americantech start-ups to help them do so.

China’s largest internet companies — the BAT plus the e-commerce company JD.com — have invested $5.6 billion in 48 tech deals in the United States over the past two years, according to CBI Insights data via CNBC.

Such investments have raised concerns in the United States. The Trump administration officials said the Chinese government uses these investments to develop its own “national champions” in cutting-edge industries like A.I. and autonomous vehicles. As part of the China tariffs, the Trump administration plans to place restrictions on Chinese investment in American technology companies.

Shrugging off hikes by the Federal Reserve and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority this week, the Bank of England maintained its key interest rate at 0.5 percent today.

Two members of the central bank’s monetary policy committee called for an immediate rate increase, but the majority of the committee did not see the need for a hike at this time. Most economists expect the Bank of England to raise rates in May, when it releases its latest quarterly projection for inflation.

In the minutes from the committee’s latest meeting, the central bank said that there had been “few surprises” in recent economic data and its February projections for inflation appeared “broadly on track.” The bank said that the May inflation report would allow the committee to “undertake a fuller assessment of the underlying momentum in the economy, the degree of slack remaining and the extent of domestic inflationary pressures.”

— Chad Bray

After days of questions and criticism about his silence, the Facebook co-founder and C.E.O. posted a statement and gave a series of interviews. (Sheryl Sandberg offered a statement, too.)

What he promised: to investigate apps that had access to large amounts of Facebook data, to restrict developers’ data access and to show users how to revoke app permissions.

Highlights from his interviews:

• To CNN: “I’m not sure we shouldn’t be regulated,” Zuckerberg said. “There are things like ad transparency regulation that I would love to see.” (He also made ad transparency promises to Wired.)

• To the NYT, about Facebook’s business model: “I don’t think the ad model is going to go away, because I think fundamentally, it’s important to have a service like this that everyone in the world can use, and the only way to do that is to have it be very cheap or free.”

• On why it took so long for him to respond, compared with other tech C.E.O.s: “I know that there was a lot of pressure to speak sooner, but my assessment was that it was more important that what we said was fully accurate.”

• On #DeleteFacebook: “I don’t think we’ve seen a meaningful number of people act on that, but, you know, it’s not good.”

Peter Eavis’s take: Missing from his response was a full explanation of why Facebook took so long to disclose the Cambridge Analytica misuse of data. The company found out in 2015. Why wasn’t the abuse disclosed then?

Elsewhere in the Facebook orbit: A guide to deleting your account; idealistic reasons not to. Why former employees feel emboldened to criticize. And Cambridge Analytica is being accused of receiving a foreign leader’s private emails, perhaps from Israeli hackers. (It says it didn’t.)

It’s here. A $1.3 trillion, 2,232-page pact between Republicans and Democrats that needs to be signed into law by midnight Friday to avoid another government shutdown. But can Congress pass the bill — and will President Trump support it?

What’s in there:

• A patch for the “grain glitch” in the recent tax overhaul that hurt corporate farms and helped farming co-ops

• A pathway to funding for the New York Gateway project, something Mr. Trump has opposed

• $1.6 billion, with strings attached, for a border wall with Mexico

• Nothing to protect Dreamers or to shore up the Affordable Care Act

Republicans like the senators Rand Paul and John Kennedy are unhappy. So too is the president, who wanted far more for his wall. (He’s on board for now.)

• How George Nader, now a cooperating witness in Robert Mueller’s investigation, sought to influence a top Republican fund-raiser on behalf of Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. (NYT)

• Among the companies lined up to meet the Saudi delegation in the U.S.: Boeing, JPMorgan Chase, and Apple. (Bloomberg)

• The F.B.I. investigated Jeff Sessions for perjury last year. Andrew McCabe, now fired, authorized it. (NYT)

• Reince Priebus, Don McGahn and Ivanka Trump supported a White House push for nondisclosure agreements, some while knowing they would be unenforceable. (NYT)

• John Kelly was furious over leaks about Mr. Trump’s briefing materials for his call after President Vladimir Putin’s election victory, which included the admonition “DO NOT CONGRATULATE.” (Politico)

Adding a quarter of a percentage point to the benchmark interest rate, as expected, Jay Powell said, “There is no sense in the data that we’re on the cusp of an acceleration of inflation.”

The Fed is now expected to raise rates three times this year, three times next year and twice in 2020. But there’s a bigger issue, as Neil Irwin of The Upshot points out:

Critics’ corner:  Justin Lahart of Heard on the Street writes about inflation, “The Fed’s view doesn’t jibe with the recent hopes and dreams of some investors.” And Tom Buerkle of Breakingviews writes, “The big questions are yet to come. Powell is smart to want maximum flexibility to address them.”

It shows the vehicle in Tempe, Ariz. didn’t try to swerve from a woman walking her bike across the street, the WSJ says. And the human behind the wheel was looking down for about 5 seconds before it hit her.

More from Greg Bensinger and Tim Higgins of the WSJ:

The stakes for Uber remain high, as Goldman Sachs analysts recently pointed out, since self-driving cars were part of its route to profits. And car insurers are watching closely, too.

Elsewhere in Uber: The company withdrew an offer to make Assaf Ronen its new product head, after discovering he had left Amazon earlier than he said. Wall Street is fighting to get into Uber’s big debt deal.

Elsewhere in tech: Tesla shareholders approved a $2.6 billion stock options grant to Elon Musk. The Senate passed a sex-trafficking bill opposed by some tech companies. And Dropbox raised its I.P.O. price range.

The winning bid in the auction for the unit could amount to as much as $20 billion. Gaining brands such as Advil and Centrum multivitamins would be a big success for GlaxoSmithKline’s C.E.O. of nearly a year, Emma Walmlsey, who has favored a diverse product lineup.

Reckitt Benckiser withdrew from the fray yesterday, with its C.E.O. saying, “An acquisition for the whole Pfizer consumer health business did not fit our acquisition criteria.”

The deals flyaround

• Meredith plans to sell Time, Sports Illustrated, Fortune and Money. (NYT)

• Steve Wynn intends to sell some or all of his 12 percent stake in Wynn Resorts. (WSJ)

• Matillion, a cloud data software maker, has raised $20 million in a new round from investors like Sapphire Ventures and Scale Venture Partners, the company tells us.

• Elliott Management is reportedly considering backing a spinoff of Telecom Italia’s fixed-line network. (Bloomberg)

• As others have fled, Sycamore Partners has dived profitably into traditional retail. (WSJ)

Newly minted virtual currency moguls are worried about the I.R.S. as the April 17 tax deadline looms. Many are libertarians who don’t like having a central government, let alone paying taxes to one. Others are simply newbies who didn’t realize that you have to pay taxes on capital gains, even on digital money.

More from Kevin Roose’s latest column:

Elsewhere in crypto: Bitcoin is at $8,999. Some blockchains are better than others. And Britain has formed a task force to study cryptocurrencies.

• Jimmy Iovine is formally stepping down as the head of Apple’s music division. (WSJ)

• Twitter’s chief information security officer, Michael Coates, is leaving. (The Verge)

• The Noble Group’s founder and chairman, Richard Elman, is retiring, leaving the commodity trader with a battered stock price and high amounts of debt. (WSJ)

• Swiss prosecutors have opened a criminal investigation into the taxes of the French luxury group Kering, part of a case that started in Italy. (NYT)

• Abu Dhabi is consolidating two of its leading sovereign wealth funds into a $200 billion vehicle. (FT)

• What Bill Voge disclosed before his sudden departure as chair of Latham & Watkins: sexually explicit messages to a woman he approached on behalf of a Christian men’s group, and threats to her husband to have her thrown in jail. (Law360)

• Gary Barber was fired from MGM after a disagreement over how to compete with Netflix, unnamed sources said. (WSJ)

• Jamie Dimon earned 364 times as much as the median JPMorgan employee last year. (WSJ)

.

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

SAN JOSE, Calif. — Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has long rued the day that Apple and Google beat him to building smartphones, which now underpin many people’s digital lives. Ever since, he has searched for the next frontier of modern computing and how to be a part of it from the start.

Now, Mr. Zuckerberg is betting he has found it: the real world.

On Tuesday, Mr. Zuckerberg introduced what he positioned as the first mainstream augmented reality platform, a way for people to view and digitally manipulate the physical world around them through the lens of their smartphone cameras.

What that means today is fairly limited. Augmented reality is nascent — people can add simple flourishes on top of their photos or videos, like sticking a pixelated blue beard on a selfie or adding puppy stickers to a photo of the front yard of their house.

But in Mr. Zuckerberg’s telling, there are few boundaries for how this technology will evolve. He said he envisioned a world in which people could eventually point smartphone cameras at a bowl of cereal and have an app create tiny sharks swimming in the milk. Friends can leave virtual notes for one another on the walls outside their favorite restaurants, noting which menu item is the most delicious.

Apps like Pokémon Go, the augmented reality game that was a global hit last year, are just the beginning for Mr. Zuckerberg. One day, he mused, household objects could perhaps be replaced entirely by software.

“Think about how many of the things around us don’t actually need to be physical,” Mr. Zuckerberg said in an interview last week. “Instead of a $500 TV sitting in front of us, what’s to keep us from one day having it be a $1 app?”

Facebook does not expect to build all of these software experiences itself. At its annual developer conference on Tuesday, it called for computer programmers to help by building augmented-reality-based apps to work with what Facebook calls its Camera Effects Platform. Facebook announced new tools to aid developers and will begin the initiative with a small number of partners in a closed test.

Mr. Zuckerberg’s goal is ambitious — perhaps overly so. Augmented reality efforts have flopped in the past, including Google’s much-promoted attempt around spectacles with the technology, known as Google Glass. Facebook has previously gambled on other futuristic technologies — including virtual reality, with a $2 billion purchase of Oculus, the virtual reality goggles maker, in 2014 — but Mr. Zuckerberg has acknowledged that it has had difficulty finding traction.

He is also grappling with many issues that have the potential to distract Facebook. The company is under scrutiny for its position as an arbiter of mass media and faces questions as to what role Facebook should play in policing content across its platform of nearly two billion regular users. That issue was thrust to the forefront this week after a man posted on his Facebook page a video of a murder he had committed; the suspect shot himself to death  Tuesday

Still, Mr. Zuckerberg said he intended to create the next major app ecosystem that would work with Facebook’s in-app camera. If successful, Facebook could be in a position similar to that of Apple, which relies on the hundreds of millions of apps in its store to keep users buying the company’s smartphones and tablets every year. Facebook, in turn, wants developers to build experiences that entice people to visit its website and apps on a daily — if not hourly — basis.

“Just like Apple built the iPod and iTunes ecosystem before the iPhone, you want to make sure there’s a set of content there, even if there’s not everything,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.

Facebook has been building toward this goal for some time. Mr. Zuckerberg has spent the last 18 months reorganizing his company and its suite of consumer apps — Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger — around a new interface, focused almost entirely on the camera. Slowly, the company has played down the role of text inside its apps, instead encouraging people to take and send photos and videos to one another by using the in-app camera features.

In time, Facebook hopes that companies like Electronic Arts, Nike and Warner Brothers — which are part of the initial set of partners — will be the ones to bring immersive augmented reality experiences to Facebook’s platform.

One early partner app is Giphy Thoughts, made by Giphy, a start-up that acts as a search engine for animated GIFs, which play as something like short-form videos. With Giphy Thoughts, for instance, people can place cartoon thought bubbles above the heads of others they view through their Facebook camera lens.

“It goes back to creative expression,” said David Rosenberg, director of business development at Giphy. “Facebook Camera is just going to be this massive audience of people ready to make deeply personal content they can share with their friends.”

Whether Facebook can make it worth the time of more developers to create such apps remains a question.

“Software developers might ask, why would I create something for Facebook’s platform that I am presumably giving away for free?” said Jan Dawson, chief analyst for Jackdaw Research, an industry analysis firm. “And then when competitors introduce A.R. offerings, will I have to create it for Facebook and then a different lens for Snapchat? Or do I wait for Apple and Google to release their A.R. platforms?”

Facebook’s past attempts to be at the center of an apps ecosystem with developers have not been particularly successful. In 2012, the company released App Center, a hub within Facebook to discover third-party apps — like Farmville, Goodreads and Spotify — and use them on the Facebook desktop site. But that initiative fizzled as consumers slowly shifted away from desktops to smartphones.

One year later, Facebook tried to emulate Apple’s and Google’s platform strategies more directly with its own branded smartphone, called Facebook Home. The phone, a product of a partnership with AT&T and HTC, sold poorly and was eventually abandoned.

Then came Facebook’s most aggressive move, the acquisition of Oculus in 2014. Facebook is investing hundreds of millions of dollars more in V.R. content and apps in the hopes that it will mature into a full-fledged ecosystem similar to Apple’s App Store, but sales of the Oculus Rift goggles have been slow.

“They are shaking things up there but haven’t quite found their stride,” said Stephanie Llamas, head of virtual reality and augmented reality strategy at SuperData Research, a game industry research firm.

Mr. Zuckerberg has said the efforts with Oculus will take longer than he and his team initially believed, and probably billions of dollars more in investment. But in the interview last week, he said some of the technology acquired in the Oculus purchase had helped produce the seeds of the new augmented reality platform.

Hours before Facebook’s developer conference Tuesday, Snapchat — a professed “camera company” and Facebook’s direct competitor for attention — announced its own take on augmented reality, offering new 3-D lenses for use inside its app. The effect is similar to some of the ideas Mr. Zuckerberg has described. Snapchat also offers Spectacles, glasses that allow users to record video from their faces.

Microsoft has its version of an augmented reality headset, called HoloLens, which it unveiled two years ago.

Another dark horse is Magic Leap, the secretive augmented reality start-up that has an enormous investment from Google and Alibaba and is working on hardware to offer a similar experience. The company has yet to unveil an official product.

For the near term, however, Mr. Zuckerberg sees the smartphone camera as the first step forward.

“We want to get to this world in the future where you eventually have glasses or contact lenses where you can mix digital or physical objects in the digital world,” he said.