Perhaps your college friend asked you to support her quarterly magazine for her birthday. Or maybe your neighbor nudged you to donate to his favorite food bank on “Giving Tuesday” the week after Thanksgiving. And then there’s that pesky public-health nonprofit you’ve been charitable to in the past.

If you’ve gotten on Facebook at all this year, you’ve probably been asked to give money. And if you’re like many users, your newsfeed became particularly overrun by Fund-raisers during the last month or so. (If you’re still overwhelmed, we’ve got a comprehensive guide  to end-of-the-year charitable giving.)

How did we get here? And at what point did Facebook become a hub for this sort of thing?

It all started innocuously enough — with a modest “Donate” button.

When Facebook rolled out the new button in 2013, it allowed people to contribute directly to nonprofits through the social media platform for the first time. At the outset, 19 organizations were listed as partners.

About two years later, officials began testing another new tool: Fund-raisers. Using that feature, in tandem with an improved donate button, about three dozen organizations now had a place from which they could raise money for a campaign. And by June 2016, Facebook announced it would expand its Fund-raisers tool to allow users themselves to raise money for more than 100 nonprofits in the United States.

Less than five months later, that group of 100 was expanded to more than 750,000. Facebook teamed up with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Together, they pledged to contribute up to $1 million to Facebook Fund-raisers — $500,000 from the foundation in matching funds and $500,000 in waived fees from Facebook.

But they weren’t done. In August, the company announced that users in the United States would be able to create Fund-raisers in honor of their birthdays.

A high point was Giving Tuesday 2017. The Tuesday after Thanksgiving in the United States has become a focal point for donations on social media in the past five years. In an apparent attempt to raise the bar, the Gates Foundation increased its matching contribution this year to $1 million. Facebook covered all the fees for the day.

Before the Giving Tuesday promotion, Facebook took a 5 percent cut of the donations, according to news media reports and archived versions of its informational pages.

When Giving Tuesday arrived, the company did away with the fees, and then, the next day, officials announced that those fees would be eliminated moving forward. (Donations made to personal Fund-raisers — like for a medical emergency — are still charged a 6.9 percent fee in the United States and are generally not tax-deductible.)

In interviews, some Facebook users worried that it would take too long for nonprofits to get their donations. Others groused that inviting friends to donate one by one was time consuming. And a few said they were confused about whether they would be charged a service fee.

Still, users overwhelmingly said they were amazed by the ease, simplicity and effectiveness of fund-raising on Facebook. A Washington, D.C., woman said she started a Fund-raiser by accident and raised almost $500 in hours. Many said they were stunned by the number of people who donated — particularly extended family members — even though they are seldom in touch.

Kelly Hewitt, 31, of Chicago, saw the banner advertising the Gates Foundation match this year and decided to open her first Fund-raiser. So many donations poured in that Ms. Hewitt had to increase her fund-raising goal — twice.

“I do think it’s a really powerful tool that connects people,” she said of Facebook. “If it can be leveraged to do something great like this, then I don’t know why we wouldn’t use it.”

In its news releases and presentations, Facebook has framed the development of its Fund-raisers as part of a broader effort to do “social good.”

Experts said that may be true. But they say there is almost certainly another motivation, too.

Keith A. Quesenberry, an assistant professor of marketing at Messiah College in Mechanicsburg, Pa., said the social network needs to increase the amount of time users spend on its site if the company hopes to keep increasing its revenue. That’s part of the reason Facebook has pushed native video, and probably part of the reason it built a platform that allows users to donate without leaving the site, he said.

Fund-raising platforms such as GoFundMe have always relied on social networks to make campaigns successful, added Jeremy Littau, an associate professor at Lehigh University in Bethlehem, Pa., who studies social networks and civic action.

“This is Facebook deciding they’re no longer happy playing a middleman role,” he said.

Both Mr. Quesenberry and Mr. Littau said they consider Facebook’s decision to eliminate the donation fee to be a bold business move aimed at taking more market share and potentially putting competitors out of business.

“Any features that are popular on other networks, they just end up adopting,” Mr. Quesenberry said of Facebook.

In an email on Tuesday, Stephen Rocco Rodi, a spokesman for Facebook’s social good team, said that giving is growing — and having more options will help.

“People have always come together on Facebook to support the causes they care about, and we build products to make that easier,” he said. “We’ve seen people raise money for disaster relief, education, the environment and for friends and family in need. Our goal is to help make this even easier for people who are already using Facebook for this reason, and for people who want to support causes they care about on and off Facebook.”

A spokeswoman for GoFundMe, which claims to be the world’s largest social fund-raising platform, said in an email that its community has continued to grow “despite new competition.”

That community includes more than 50 million people, the spokeswoman said.

GoFundMe does not charge what it calls a “platform” fee for new personal fund-raising campaigns based in the United States. But it does charge an “industry-standard payment processing fee to accept credit cards” of 2.9 percent.

“In addition to growing our core business in the U.S., we are also rapidly expanding into new international markets as well as the charity fund-raising space,” the company spokeswoman, Kelly R. Galvin, said in a statement.

Gabi Jubran, 28, of Menlo Park, Calif., was planning on running a Giving Tuesday campaign for the nonprofit organization he recently founded.

Since Mr. Jubran’s organization is in its infant stages, he worried about how long the money might stay in limbo if he used Facebook to raise funds. So he chose a different platform, Classy, and added a “Donate” button to his nonprofit’s Facebook page that redirected users to the alternative platform.

(Facebook says it takes about two weeks to pay out charitable organizations that are registered with the site’s payment system; it can take closer to six weeks to get a check to nonprofits that aren’t registered.)

Mr. Jubran soon found that when friends clicked the donate button on Facebook, the social network displayed a pop-up box forcing them to click again if they wished to leave. And when he posted a video about his organization on its Facebook page, Mr. Jubran discovered that although the video got more than 5,000 views, far fewer people departed Facebook to visit his nonprofit’s site.

Knowing all this, Mr. Jubran is now contemplating a change in strategy. Instead of raising money exclusively on Classy and ignoring Facebook Fund-raisers, he concedes, “I may end up just doing both.”

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning. The Saudi crown prince’s quest for investment, jail for a U.S. police officer who fatally shot Justine Damond and sad news for white rhinos. Here’s what you need to know:

• Who will be spared?

Steven Mnuchin, the U.S. Treasury secretary, was hounded at the G-20 meeting in Buenos Aires by countries seeking exemptions from President Trump’s stiff steel and aluminum tariffs — which take effect on Friday.

U.S. allies like Australia and South Korea argue that they should escape the tariffs, which so far have been justified on the vague grounds of U.S. security.

Mr. Mnuchin dismissed the idea that the White House was starting a trade war, but the Trump administration plans at least $30 billion in new tariffs on China this week.

_____

• As Facebook grapples with outrage over its role in the harvesting of data from 50 million accounts, the company’s chief data security officer is on the way out.

We were told that the executive, Alex Stamos, had pushed for more transparency but met resistance from other senior leaders.

The U.S. Federal Trade Commission is investigating whether Facebook violated a data privacy agreement, and Britain’s information watchdog sought a warrant to search the London offices Cambridge Analytica, the analysis firm involved.

_____

•  Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, began a two-week visit to the U.S., seeking some $35 billion in investment. Arms sales are on his agenda. He met with President Trump at the White House, and plans to travel to New York, Boston, Silicon Valley, Houston and also Los Angeles. That stop is part of his efforts to build a Saudi film industry.

Mr. Trump took part of the day to phone his congratulations to President Vladimir Putin on his re-election, and said the two would meet soon. The warmth came just days after the White House imposed sanctions on Russia for election meddling and “malicious cyberattacks,” and joined Britain in blaming Russia for a nerve agent attack r on British soil.

“The Daily” podcast gets an illuminating review of Mr. Putin’s trajectory from childhood to one of the most powerful in the world.

_____

• “Not one inch of the territory of the great motherland can be carved off.”

President Xi Jinping used the closing of the National People’s Congress to deliver an ardently patriotic speech, underscoring his political dominance and warning against challenges to Chinese territorial claims — especially any move to seek independence for Taiwan.

Here are five important takeaways from the congress, whose decisions will shape China for years.

_____

• Another U.S. school shooting.

A male student opened fire with a handgun in the hallway of a high school in southern Maryland, injuring two students and exchanging gunfire with a security officer stationed at the school. The suspect was shot dead.

The shooting comes just over a month after a shooting at a Florida high school left 17 dead, adding new urgency to the debate over gun control and raising questions about the role of armed personnel in schools.

And the authorities in Texas were trying to determine whether a package that exploded at a FedEx distribution center near San Antonio, above, was linked to four recent bombings in Austin.

_____

• The world’s last male northern white rhino has died.

The loss of the 45-year-old rhino (named Sudan), above, leaves behind only his daughter and granddaughter in the subspecies. Neither can carry a pregnancy to term, so conservationists hope to fertilize their eggs in vitro with banked sperm and use southern white rhinos as surrogate mothers.

• Picture a leader. Most people will draw a man, not a woman. Researchers are investigating the reasons there’s such a gender gap in the recognition of leadership potential.

• More than 400 Silicon Valley entrepreneurs are forming a Founders for Change coalition to pressure the white- and male-dominated world of venture capital to diversify its ranks.

• It’s been 10 years since the collapse of Bear Stearns, the first stirrings of the global financial crisis. Many economists argue that the seeds of the next crisis are being sown today.

• U.S. stocks were up. Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• President Bashar al-Assad’s new propaganda campaign takes viewers on a leisurely drive into the heart of Syria’s civil war. He drives past bombed-out neighborhoods, often with an elbow propped casually out the window. [The New York Times]

• The U.S. police officer who fatally shot an unarmed Australian, Justine Damond, last year was charged with murder and manslaughter. [The New York Times]

• A former Playboy model who said she had an affair with President Trump sued to be released from a 2016 legal agreement requiring her silence. [The New York Times]

• The U.S. and South Korea are resuming the annual drills they suspended during the Olympics and Paralympics. [The New York Times]

• Nicolas Sarkozy, the former president of France, was questioned in an investigation into whether his 2007 election campaign received funding from Libya in the time of Muammar el-Qaddafi. [The New York Times]

• In Indonesia, a string of protests led an Islamic university to reverse a week-old ban on niqabs, the face-concealing Muslim headdress. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Renovating? Here’s some advice.

• Enjoy fine dining on a fast-food budget.

• Recipe of the day: Get through your Wednesday by planning to make this no-bake mango dessert.

• Hannah Gadsby, a 40-year-old Australian comic, channels the rage of the current feminist moment in “Nanette,” a riveting New York debut. She calls out Louis C.K., Harvey Weinstein and others, but her real target is the culture that enables and excuses abuse.

• In memoriam.  Larry Kwong, 94, the N.H.L.’s first player of Asian descent. He played only one game for the New York Rangers in 1948. (“I didn’t get a real chance to show what I can do,” he said.)

• And our Beijing bureau chief explores the All Sages Bookstore: a literary labor of love, run by a onetime Tiananmen Square protester, that has survived both the capital city’s ferocious property market and the censorship of the Xi Jinping era.

Each week, The Times’s crossword column, Wordplay, highlights the answer to one of the most difficult clues from the previous week’s puzzles.

This week’s word: nene.

If it looks like a goose and honks like a goose, it should just be a goose, right? The nene, however, is special. Not only is it Hawaii’s state bird, the nene is the world’s rarest goose.

Its webbed feet have adapted to living on hardened lava, but it is a weak flier. Nenes were once hunted nearly to extinction, but conservation efforts have bolstered their population.

Another reason to know your nenes is that, although they may be rare in the wild, they come up quite a bit in crossword puzzles. Nene has been an entry in The Times’s crossword 295 times since 1944.

It appeared in the puzzle on March 12, with the clue “Hawaiian goose.” The word might also appear in the easier puzzles at the beginning of the week, with the clue “Hawaiian state bird” or “Hawaiian honker.”

Later in the week, as the crosswords become more difficult, it might be referred to as “Aloha State bird,” “Endangered state bird,” “Lava geese,” “Bird so-called from its call” or “Gray-brown goose.”

You can find out about the nene and other birds that appear regularly in our Crossword Aviary.

Deb Amlen contributed reporting.

_____

Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. 

And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers. 

Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.

Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• Are Facebook’s changes good for investors?

• JPMorgan’s earnings beat can’t mask Wall Street’s malaise.

• JPMorgan takes hit tied to Steinhoff’s woes.

• U.S. Supreme Court will hear a challenge to S.E.C.’s in-house judges.

• BlackRock is now a $6 trillion firm.

Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.

Robert Cyran of Breakingviews argues that the answer is yes, at least in the long run. Here’s his point:

The highlights from the big bank’s latest earnings release:

• $4.2 billion in net income for the fourth quarter, down 34 percent because of $2.4 billion worth of charges related to the new tax law.

• Excluding the tax-related charges, the bank earned $1.76 per share. Analysts on average had expected $1.69.

• Investment banking revenue was up 10 percent, at $1.6 billion.

• Fixed-income trading was down 34 percent, while stock markets revenue was flat.

The bigger picture

The onetime engine of Wall Street’s enviable performance, fixed-income trading, is still sputtering, thanks to new regulations, disruptive technologies and calmer markets.

More from Emily Flitter and Kate Kelly in the NYT:

Tucked into JPMorgan's earnings this morning was a $143 million mark-to-market loss the bank disclosed on a “margin loan to a single client.”

That client is Steinhoff International Holdings, according to reports.

Early last month the giant South African retailer, which owns American mattress maker Sleepy’s, said it had discovered accounting irregularities. Its shares tumbled 78 percent on the news.

How does this effect J.P. Morgan? The bank was not among the initial group of lenders on the margin loan “to an entity controlled by Steinhoff’s then chairman Christo Wiese to purchase additional shares in the company in the fall of 2016.” But, as the WSJ reports, “losses from the margin loan were expected to have been spread among a wider group of banks.”

How often does the Supreme Court agree to review a decision in which the two sides agree the lower court was wrong?

That odd situation will play out in Lucia v. Securities and Exchange Commission in which the justices will consider whether administrative law judges used by the S.E.C. are “officers” under the Constitution Appointments Clause. If they are, then they can only be put in office by the president, a head of a department, or the judiciary.

This obscure provision burst on the scene about two years ago when defendants challenged how the S.E.C. picked its in-house judges [link below].

The S.E.C. became more aggressive in pursuing administrative cases in the wake of the Dodd-Frank Act. The law expanded the S.E.C.’s authority to bring most cases in its administrative court rather than going into a federal district court, depriving defendants of discovery rights and a jury to decide the case.

Defendants argued the judges are not mere employees but “officers” so the proceeding was unconstitutional. Needless to say, the S.E.C. disagreed and argued before the appeals courts that there was no issue regarding their constitutional status.

The S.E.C. won the case before the federal appeals court in Washington, D.C. but lost in the Tenth Circuit. Then the Justice Department flipped the script. In late November, the solicitor general’s office filed a brief [link below] with the Supreme Court stating that the judges had not been properly appointed because they are “officers” under the Constitution.

The key issue is whether other agencies beyond the S.E.C. that use in-house judges will also have to change how they are appointed. The impact of the decision could be significant if previously decided cases will have to be reheard before a properly appointed judge, creating a mess that could take years to sort out.

-- Peter J. Henning

Continuing to cash in on the boom in exchange-traded funds, the world’s largest money manager ended 2017 with $6.3 trillion under management up 22 percent for the year.

BlackRock reported adjusted net earnings of $3.7 billion for the year on Friday, up 16 percent for the year and easily beating analyst expectations. The firm also reported a $1.2 billion tax benefit for the fourth quarter, resulting from the recent tax cut package. Including the tax benefit, earnings were up 59 percent for the year.

BlackRock has been one of the main beneficiaries of the current bull market. Money has flowed over the past nine years into passive investment funds that track a wide variety of indexes and strategies at minimal cost.

Of the $367 billion in net inflows that BlackRock took in last year, $245 billion came via the firm’s iShares suite of E.T.F.s.

Increasingly investors are using E.T.F.’s to make bets on the stock and bond markets as opposed to buying the individual securities themselves.

— Landon Thomas Jr.

The famous oilman and investment manager is shutting his energy-focused hedge fund as his health declines, the WSJ reports.

Mr. Pickens wrote in a letter that he plans to publish soon and was reviewed by The Wall Street Journal:

Yesterday morning, six senators looked near a bipartisan deal on how to protect the class of young unauthorized immigrants known as Dreamers. That would have pleased the 142 business leaders who had pleaded for one.

Then “shithole” happened.

Leaving aside the controversy over the vulgarity, President Trump’s reported remarks — which he says weren’t quite like that — exposed his skepticism about the contours of a proposal presented to him by the senators Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, and Dick Durbin, Democrat of Illinois.

Democrats want a clean bill to protect the immigrants, but Mr. Trump questioned why immigrants from Haiti and parts of Africa should be protected too.

Other Republicans expressed skepticism as well. Senator John Cornyn of Texas said, “We need to have more than six votes for a proposal.”

The Washington flyaround

• Inside the fractious relationship between the president and his party. (Time)

• Steven Mnuchin defended Mr. Trump’s planned visit to the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, with the improbable assertion that it isn’t “a hangout for globalists.” (Axios)

• How Mr. Mnuchin is expanding his influence within the administration, to colleagues’ consternation. (Politico)

The retail giant initially won praise for announcing that it was raising hourly wages to $11, expanding parental leave benefits and offering U.S. employees bonuses of up to $1,000.

But then:

• People calculated how much — or little — it would all cost. The $300 million bill for the new hourly rate amounts to “just 0.3 percent of the company’s sales and administration costs.” One analyst calculated Walmart’s overall tax savings at about $2.2 billion.

• Critics pointed out that Walmart would probably have had to raise wages anyway, given the tight labor market and competition from rivals like Target.

• Walmart said it was closing 63 Sam’s Club stores, and trying to find jobs for affected employees.

The tax flyaround

• Fiat Chrysler announced $2,000 bonuses for about 60,000 workers and plans to move some truck production to Michigan from Mexico. (WSJ)

• Delta said yesterday that the tax changes would help it in two ways: via a lower corporate rate, and via other businesses spending some of their savings on travel. (Reuters)

• Bill Dudley, the New York Fed’s president, said the cuts would probably prompt rate increases. (FT)

• The Treasury Department is encouraging companies to incorporate the new, lower withholding rates as soon as possible, so benefits will show sooner. (NYT)

• Companies like Apple whose fiscal years don’t match the calendar year could use a loophole for even bigger gains. (Bloomberg)

With its confidential filing with the S.E.C., the online file storage company will be the latest Silicon Valley unicorn to attempt a transition to the public markets — by spring, it hopes.

One big question: What will Dropbox be valued at? Private market investors reckoned $10 billion. And can it command a higher valuation than its rival Box?

What’s next: Dropbox has already hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase as underwriters, and will appoint more. It will then work on formalizing its prospectus and arrange meetings with analysts and, eventually, prospective investors.

The other big question: Will Dropbox be more like Stitch Fix (up 66 percent since its I.P.O.) or Snap (down 40 percent)?

What to expect: More status updates by family or photos of your friend’s Bernese mountain dog. And fewer posts by publishers.

What publishers fear, as expressed by Jason Kint of Digital Content Next to Sydney Ember and Sapna Maheshwari of the NYT:

Mark Zuckerberg acknowledged that could hit Facebook’s business in the short term. Its shares were down 2.6 percent in premarket trading this morning.

The bigger point

The company and Mr. Zuckerberg are considering how to reshape their products in the face of an array of critics, from Congress and other governments to user privacy advocates. “We want to make sure that our products are not just fun, but are good for people,” Mr. Zuckerberg told Mike Isaac of the NYT.

Being accused of harassing a female journalist — Lauren Tara LaCapra of Reuters said he tried to pull her into an elevator to go to a cocktail lounge — helped hasten a downfall years in the making.

What Morgan Stanley officials felt, according to Kate Kelly and Andrew in the NYT:

Mr. Ford and his lawyers argue otherwise and said Ms. LaCapra’s account was false.

Where is Wall Street’s #MeToo moment?

Keep waiting. More than most industries, finance can force cases into arbitration. And there’s the money, as the wealth manager Jennifer Hatch told Max Abelson of Bloomberg:

The misconduct flyaround

• DFJ has apologized for an event hosted by a co-founder, Steve Jurvetson, that a book by the Bloomberg reporter Emily Chang described as featuring rampant sex and drug use. (Recode)

• Daniel Ek, the C.E.O. of Spotify, has backed the #MeToo movement, saying his company had a lot to do on gender bias. (Politico)

• University students and faculty worldwide have been describing harassment in an anonymous crowdsourced spreadsheet. (WSJ)

Tax professionals are getting more questions from Bitcoin sellers, and the I.R.S. is also showing interest.

More from Brian Fung of the WaPo:

The digital money flyaround

• Shares in the money-transfer services provider MoneyGram rose after it said it was testing Ripple’s XRP. (MoneyGram)

• At least a dozen Chinese companies played down their blockchain connections amid signs that regulators are trying to limit speculative surges. (Bloomberg)

• The top Wall Street lawyer Rodge Cohen said it was a matter of time until U.S. regulators began a sweeping response to Bitcoin. (Bloomberg)

• Coin miners are straining the infrastructure of a small county in Washington state where electricity is cheap. (CNBC)

• Peter Thiel offered to purchase some assets from what’s left of Gawker. (Reuters)

• The rapper Drake wants to take his whiskey company public through a Regulation A+ offering, a type of crowdsourced fund-raising. (FT)

• The French conglomerate Kering said it would spin off the sports brand Puma, and focus on luxury. (NYT)

• Goldman Sachs’s private equity arm and Vestar Capital Partners are exploring a sale of the food manufacturer Hearthside Food Solutions, for about $2.5 billion, according to people familiar with the matter. (Bloomberg)

• Maoyan Weying, China’s biggest online film ticketing platform, is planning an initial public offering in Hong Kong that could raise about $1 billion, according to people with knowledge of the matter. (Bloomberg)

• Fidelity Investments, Principal Funds and BlackRock disclosed lower valuations for Uber after SoftBank purchased shares at a 30 percent discount. (Recode)

• The for-profit health insurance company Centene was sued by customers who said it had failed to provide adequate access to doctors in 15 states. (NYT)

• Dish Network, CBS, 21st Century Fox, Netflix and Starz have given the Justice Department information for its case against AT&T’s proposed deal with Time Warner, according to unnamed sources. (WSJ)

• Fujifilm, which is in talks with Xerox, has reinvented itself and plans to spend more than $4 billion over the next three years on acquisitions. (WSJ)

• The alleged theft of exchange-traded funds worth $1.4 billion has raised an question for the industry: Who owns an E.T.F.? (WSJ)

• Qualcomm is set to clinch conditional E.U. antitrust approval for its $39 billion acquisition of NXP Semiconductors as soon as next week, according to unidentified sources. (WSJ)

• Iran’s protests were fueled by anger over losses at loosely regulated credit institutions, which affected millions of people. (WSJ)

Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.

You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

The room was full of stressed-out cryptocurrency traders. And for once, they weren’t nervous about the price of Bitcoin, or the roller coaster swings of the virtual currency markets.

No, the subject of this gloomy affair was taxes. Specifically, how — and whether — to pay them.

With this year’s April 17 tax filing deadline fast approaching, many virtual currency traders are sweating over their tax returns. They’re confused by the complicated rules, many of them stemming from guidelines issued by the I.R.S. in 2014, governing the taxation of virtual currencies. They’re afraid that the windfall profits created by last year’s cryptocurrency boom, which sent currencies like Bitcoin and Ether skyrocketing and created a new class of crypto-millionaires, have left them with huge tax bills. And, of course, they’re worried about drawing the eye of the Internal Revenue Service.

“I’ve lost sleep over it,” said Shaun, a trader who said he was still figuring out how to properly account for last year’s cryptocurrency profits on his taxes. Shaun, who asked that his last name not be used because he has been audited in the past, said he was scared that increased scrutiny of the cryptocurrency market could lead the I.R.S. to pay special attention to cases like his.

“I don’t want to be made an example of,” he said.

This gathering, which took place last week in Manhattan and was organized by Blockmatics, a research and education company, featured three accountants who specialize in cryptocurrency tax preparation. For an hour, the audience peppered them with tax-prep questions that ranged from common (Do I have to pay taxes on Bitcoin if I haven’t sold yet?) to esoteric (If my Bitcoin wallet got hacked and all my coins got stolen, can I deduct my losses?). By the end of the hour, there seemed to be many more questions than answers.

“It’s complicated as heck,” said Mike Schreibman, an I.T. consultant who attended. Mr. Schreibman pulled out his phone to show me a dashboard of all the cryptocurrencies he trades, and said that he was considering filing an extension to buy himself more time for analysis.

“Nobody knows what’s going to happen,” said Jeanne Lowdermilk, a lawyer who trades cryptocurrencies. “But the I.R.S. is the one agency you don’t want to mess with.”

Taxes have become an increasingly divisive topic among cryptocurrency fans. On Reddit forums devoted to cryptocurrency trading, some users exchange tips for dodging their tax obligations, including a method of hiding their assets by converting them into “privacy coins,” such as Monero, which are designed to be opaque and untraceable. They argue about whether the I.R.S. could use the blockchain, the digital ledger that records all Bitcoin transactions, to identify tax evaders in the future. And they ask for tax advice on complex situations, such as fly-by-night cryptocurrency exchanges that vanish suddenly, erasing the records of users’ transactions.

Cryptocurrencies are tax-unfriendly by design. Many of the early adopters of Bitcoin were libertarians and anarchists who were drawn to the technology’s stateless, decentralized nature. And while cryptocurrency transactions are permanently recorded on the blockchain, it’s possible for users to conceal their identities.

Until recently, the I.R.S. showed little desire to go after cryptocurrency income, since there was so little of it. But last year’s boom changed all that. The agency has formed a team of specialists to investigate cryptocurrency-related crimes, including international money laundering and tax evasion. In November, after a yearlong lawsuit, the agency won a judgment that forced Coinbase, the largest American-based cryptocurrency exchange, to turn over account records for more than 14,000 customers. In January, Coinbase sent 1099-K forms to a number of its current users, informing them that their trading proceeds were being reported to the I.R.S. and reminding them to pay the taxes they owed.

All of this confusion has created a cottage industry of specialized accountants who can keep traders out of tax trouble. Many of these accountants are cryptocurrency fans themselves, and they are more likely than your average C.P.A. to understand concepts like airdrops, hard forks and other bits of confusing crypto-jargon.

Mario Costanz, the chief executive of the tax preparation firm Happy Tax, told me that an influx of cryptocurrency trading clients had helped his business more than triple in the past year. Last year, Happy Tax opened a separate cryptocurrency division, Crypto Tax Prep, which already has several thousand clients and is the fastest-growing segment of his business.

“We’re preparing for a pretty insane last seven to 10 days of the tax season,” Mr. Costanz said.

Laura Walter, a Tokyo accountant who goes by Crypto Tax Girl on Twitter, said she had been inundated with requests for help with tax preparation this year.

“A lot of crypto investors are younger and don’t have a lot of experience trading stocks,” she said. When they find out they owe taxes on their cryptocurrency trades, she said, “a lot of people are kind of shocked.”

Part of what makes paying cryptocurrency taxes so difficult is that current I.R.S. rules treat cryptocurrency as property rather than currency. That means that every time you sell or transfer a digital coin for something else — whether you’re cashing out Ether for dollars, trading Bitcoin for another cryptocurrency or using Ripple to buy a cup of coffee — you’re creating a taxable event that must be separately recorded and accounted for.

Complicating matters even more, the timing of last year’s cryptocurrency boom made for some extra tax headaches. The price of Bitcoin rose more than 1,500 percent last year, with most of the gains coming during the last two months of the year. High prices caused many traders to sell Bitcoin in 2017, in order to lock in their profits. But instead of cashing out into dollars, many traders put their 2017 profits into new cryptocurrency investments, most of which have lost money in this year’s market slump. That decline has left some investors short of the funds they need to pay the taxes they owe on last year’s gains.

Ms. Walter said she had seen clients with cryptocurrency gains as large as $400,000 who did not withhold taxes during the year and subsequently lost money trading. “Now they’re stuck with these huge tax bills, and they don’t have the capital to pay it.”

Faced with such problems, some cryptocurrency traders have decided to avoid the issue entirely, by not declaring any cryptocurrency on their taxes and hoping for the best. According to Credit Karma, which provides tax-filing services, fewer than 100 of the 250,000 people who had used the company’s tax-filing software as of February reported cryptocurrency transactions, a rate below 0.04 percent.

Even the people at the cryptocurrency tax event in Manhattan admitted that most of the traders they knew weren’t planning to pay taxes on their crypto-gains.

“This is the smallest crypto event I’ve been to,” said Mr. Schreibman, the I.T. consultant. “No one believes they’ll get in trouble.”

All the traders at the event said they would do their best to pay their taxes in full. And they looked a little shellshocked, as if they had been rudely yanked out of a thrilling, consequence-free virtual world back into the real one.

Peter Baniuszewicz, a cryptocurrency trader from Brooklyn, told me that this year’s tax season had come as a jolt of reality.

“It’s not Monopoly money anymore,” he said.

Here are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.

1. “Welcome to the revolution.”

That was Cameron Kasky, a junior at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Fla., at the March for Our Lives against gun violence in Washington. He was addressing “the leaders, skeptics and cynics who told us to sit down and stay silent.”

Hundreds of thousands of people poured into the streets around the world for sister marches. Inspired by survivors of the Parkland shooting, in speeches and with colorful signs and chants, they called for gun control measures and vowed to continue their campaign as the midterm elections approach. You can hear some of the speeches in this video, and here’s a photo gallery.

Above, two students at the rally in the capital: Jada Wright, 17, and Carl Payne, 18, from Eastern Senior High School in Washington.

Did you keep up with the headlines this week? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper.

____

2. It was a crazy week in Washington, even by Washington standards. A head-spinning series of presidential decisions on national security, trade and the budget left the capital reeling — and White House aides nervous about what comes next.

As two hard-line hawks are set to take key posts — that would be John Bolton as national security adviser and Mike Pompeo as secretary of state — President Trump’s team faces dire challenges. Topping the list: North Korea and Iran.

Then there are domestic challenges, including the one posed by Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who says she had an affair with Mr. Trump. She is suing to get out of a nondisclosure agreement, and is scheduled to appear on “60 Minutes” on Sunday.

____

3. Calls for privacy in the wake of revelations that a political consulting firm that worked for the Trump campaign harvested Facebook data without user permission could upend tech companies’ business model. Above, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, addressed jittery employees.

Facebook, Google and other firms got big by offering free services in exchange for data that could be used by advertisers. But there are growing calls from consumers and regulators — in the U.S. and in Europe — to crack down on privacy violations. Meanwhile, the Justice Department and the F.B.I. are pushing tech firms to allow them access to encrypted data on phones during investigations.

____

4. Lucky breaks, surveillance video and a pair of pink gloves led investigators to Mark Conditt, the 23-year-old suspect in a series of mysterious bombings in Texas.

He died in an explosion as investigators closed in on him early Wednesday. (Above, the scene of that explosion.) He left behind a 25-minute recording that the police said was a confession, but which shed no light on his motives.

The two people killed in the bombings belonged to prominent African-American families in Austin, which led many to believe they were racially motivated. Anthony Stephan House, 39, was a father and finance professional. Draylen Mason, 17, was a promising classical musician.

____

5. “Whenever I hear a blast go off in my hometown the first thing I do is call my little brother.”

That is Fatima Faizi, above, a young reporter in our Kabul bureau, describing how she covers suicide bombings. She has experienced eight of them since 2016.

The most recent was a devastating attack near a hospital as residents celebrated Nowruz, the Persian New Year. Thirty-one people were killed. We also talked to a Ukrainian soldier who deserted the Soviet Army and ended up staying in Afghanistan for more than three decades.

____

6. We obtained documents that show Uber’s self-driving cars were struggling even before one struck and killed a woman in Arizona. Above, investigators inspecting the vehicle.

The authorities are still investigating the crash and have not determined whether the car was at fault. Uber has halted autonomous car tests in Arizona, Pittsburgh, San Francisco and Toronto.

Tech companies and automakers are spending billions developing self-driving cars, but there are few federal rules governing their testing.

____

7. There’s a new economy in the Houston suburbs hit hardest by Hurricane Harvey: the buying and selling of flooded homes.

We sent a team to Canyon Gate, a subdivision built in a reservoir area designed to flood in order to protect central Houston. Nearly all of the homes are destined to flood again.

“I was flooded, too, I get it,” said Nick Pelletiere, above, who is both a resident and a speculator. “But this hurricane is a monstrous opportunity.”

You can see more of the rebuilding in this video, and these maps explain how the reservoir system is designed.

____

8. Our reporter recently spent 10 days on the road rediscovering Quebec, where he was born, after nearly three decades away.

He met a wide array of people along the way. Here are portraits of some of them, including an Algonquin D.J. (that’s Cory Whiteduck, above), a Muslim leader, the doorman at Quebec City’s grandest hotel and a well-known detective novelist.

____

9. The latest obituary in our Overlooked series is of the woman who invented the chocolate chip cookie. Ruth Wakefield, above, originally called her creation the Toll House Chocolate Crunch Cookie, after the popular Massachusetts restaurant she ran with her husband in the 1930s.

As the Overlooked project started, we asked readers to suggest women they felt deserved, but didn’t get, obituaries in The Times. Here are the stories you told us about your grandmothers and great-grandmothers.

____

10. Finally, come inside the Times Square studios where actors for Broadway’s biggest shows rehearse. Our annotated video shows a day in the life of the bustling space. Above, rehearsing a scene from “Frozen.”

Looking for other ideas for what to read, watch or listen to?

This week’s New York Times best-seller lists have No. 1 debuts in hardcover fiction with Clive Cussler and Graham Brown’s thriller “The Rising Sea,” and in hardcover nonfiction with Michael Isikoff and David Corn’s look at the 2016 presidential election, “Russian Roulette.”

Our team at Watching has a list of some key episodes of “Roseanne” to rewatch before the series reboot premieres on Tuesday. (The old episodes are streaming on Amazon Prime; the new ones will be on ABC.)

And our music critics have a new playlist out, with tracks by Shawn Mendes and Snail Mail, among others.

Have a great week.

____

Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.

You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.

Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

STUNG TRANG, Cambodia — As the sun rose over the murk of the Mekong River, the man who has ruled Cambodia for more than three decades, Prime Minister Hun Sen, clasped hands with the Chinese ambassador and beamed.

“The Chinese leaders respect me highly and treat me as an equal,” Mr. Hun Sen said last month during the groundbreaking of a $57 million Chinese-funded bridge in the district of Stung Trang.

“Let me ask those of you who have accused me of being too close to China,” he added. “What have you offered me besides cursing and disciplining me and threatening to put sanctions on me?”

For a quarter century, the West helped rebuild Cambodia while it was still reeling from the genocidal Khmer Rouge. The United States and Europe tied billions of dollars in aid to an effort to transform Cambodia into a liberal democracy.

That campaign has failed. Instead, Cambodia has come to stand as the highest watermark for China’s influence in Southeast Asia and as the stage for Mr. Hun Sen’s evolution into one of Asia’s most unstinting autocrats.

Mr. Hun Sen, 65, likes to be known as Lord Prime Minister and Supreme Military Commander, and has said he plans to stay in power for another decade or two. He’s making sure of it: His government has dissolved Cambodia’s main opposition party ahead of general elections set for July, jailed dozens of critics and shuttered dissenting news media outlets.

In Senate elections late last month, his Cambodian People’s Party swept all seats on offer.

Mr. Hun Sen’s enduring grip on power has been supported by China’s largess, which comes without the West’s admonishments to protect human rights and democratic institutions.

“Having alienated Western partners, Hun Sen will rely on Beijing’s political and financial support, drawing Cambodia closer to China as a result,” concluded a worldwide threat assessment by the United States intelligence community.

Mr. Hun Sen’s authoritarian descent reflects an overall retreat of democracy across Southeast Asia. There is also a perception across the region that the United States under President Trump has withdrawn its influence, leaving China free to exercise its clout. While some countries, like Vietnam, nurse historic grievances with China and have tried to resist its economic magnetism, others, like Laos and Cambodia, seem on the path toward becoming client states of Beijing.

“Cambodia is in danger of returning to being a totalitarian state,” said Mao Monyvann, a Cambodian former opposition lawmaker. “And the worst thing is that Hun Sen looked around and he saw that China supported him and that America was not punishing other Asian countries for doing similar things, so he just went ahead with his crackdown.”

China is Cambodia’s largest benefactor, providing the country with nearly one-third of its foreign investment last year. Beijing has gifted Cambodia 100 tanks and armored personnel carriers.

“In terms of funding for infrastructure, we welcome any country that’s willing,” said Sun Chanthol, Cambodia’s minister for public works and transport. “But so far, only the Chinese are responding so generously.”

The United States and other Western countries are retreating further. On Feb. 27, the Trump administration announced it was cutting aid to Cambodia because the country’s Senate elections “failed to represent the genuine will of the Cambodian people.” And Germany last month placed visa restrictions on members of the Cambodian government, including on Mr. Hun Sen.

Mr. Hun Sen has long condemned Western powers for treating Cambodians as pawns in a geopolitical game. He has a point: The French colonized Cambodia and the Americans bombed the countryside. A state-building experiment by the United Nations spread graft.

But his government’s accusations have grown increasingly outlandish.

Dissenting voices have been branded as Western agents. Kem Sokha, the leader of the opposition Cambodia National Rescue Party, was detained in September and charged with treason, accused of plotting a United States-funded coup. He denies the charges.

“The U.S. wants to break up Cambodia and destroy our country,” said Phay Siphan, a government spokesman. “The U.S. is paranoid and wants the Cambodian government to be weak so it can come back to this region and chase China away.”

During his 33 years leading Cambodia, Mr. Hun Sen has displayed a faultless sense of when to switch sides.

The son of farmers became a fighter for the Khmer Rouge, whose murderous rule from 1975 to 1979 resulted in the deaths of about a fifth of the national population.

“Yes, we were Khmer Rouge soldiers,” said Dy Bit, Mr. Hun Sen’s cousin. “There was nothing else to do.”

Mr. Dy Bit’s sister and neighbor were beaten to death by the radical communists.

“Some us killed,” he said, “and some of us were killed.”

But in 1977, Mr. Hun Sen defected to neighboring Vietnam. When Vietnamese troops ejected the Khmer Rouge from Phnom Penh two years later, Mr. Hun Sen, at 26, returned as the world’s youngest foreign minister.

By the time the United Nations arrived in 1992 to administer a transitional authority, Mr. Hun Sen was firmly in control of Cambodia. He later sidelined his co-prime minister, whose party had won elections in 1993.

Throughout his political reinventions, perhaps only Mr. Hun Sen’s antipathy toward the United States has remained unchanged.

He grew up in a wooden house near the Mekong, in a province that was heavily bombed by the Americans as the Vietnam War spilled across the border.

While he led the puppet administration installed by the Vietnamese, Mr. Hun Sen chafed at the fact that the United States refused to recognize his government. Instead, Washington, still smarting over its retreat from Vietnam, pushed for Cambodia to be represented at the United Nations by the Khmer Rouge, which still held a corner of the country.

Mr. Hun Sen has never been invited to the White House. But he has traveled to Beijing numerous times, and in 2016, President Xi Jinping of China visited Cambodia.

Shortly before Mr. Xi’s trip, Mr. Hun Sen’s government shielded Beijing from mild criticism by the Association of Southeast Asian Nations of China’s expansive claims to the South China Sea.

During his visit, Mr. Xi described the two countries as “good neighbors, real friends who are loyal to each other.”

Mr. Hun Sen’s supporters suggest that Beijing is more sympathetic to his authoritarian impulses because that is the natural state of affairs in Asia.

“We only respect one ruler because in our history there was only one king,” said Mr. Phay Siphan, the government spokesman. “The Chinese understand this because they have closer blood to us.”

Mr. Hun Sen, however, has also borrowed from Mr. Trump’s playbook.

At the Mekong bridge ceremony, Mr. Hun Sen pointed out New York Times journalists in the crowd and noted that the newspaper had been given “fake news” awards by Mr. Trump. He then warned that if The Times’s report was not suitably positive, “the Cambodian people will remember your faces.”

Other times, he has been more direct. In a speech on March 3, Mr. Hun Sen called William A. Heidt, the United States ambassador to Cambodia, a “liar ambassador.”

Mr. Hun Sen has proved adept at using social media. The public relations firm Burson-Marsteller says that his interactions on Facebook make him the third-most engaged leader in the world, although the opposition accuses Mr. Hun Sen of buying his “likes” through click farms.

On a cool February morning, Mr. Hun Sen addressed 10,000 young garment workers on the outskirts of Phnom Penh. The speech was broadcast live on Facebook, and a stream of hearts and thumbs up floated across Mr. Hun Sen’s page.

After the hourlong talk, which strayed into the merits of drinking one’s own urine and his recent struggle with diarrhea, Mr. Hun Sen posed for photos with members of the crowd. Every worker was given the equivalent of $5 in cash in an envelope that specified the money was a gift from Mr. Hun Sen and his wife, Bun Rany.

Yet his Cambodian People’s Party is not assured of the youth vote in the election scheduled for July 29. In the last election, in 2013, the opposition, buoyed by support from young Cambodians, threatened to unseat the ruling party.

Mr. Hun Sen’s campaign strategy has been to position his government as the sole guarantor of peace in Cambodia.

“Without us, there would still be war, and you wouldn’t have the choice to work in factories,” he told the garment workers.

Yet nearly 70 percent of Cambodia’s population is younger than 30. They have known no other leader but Mr. Hun Sen, and they appear eager for change.

Mr. Hun Sen, though, seems keen to keep politics a family concern. He has put his youngest son, Hun Many, in charge of courting the nation’s youth. Currently Cambodia’s second-youngest lawmaker, Mr. Hun Many has expressed interest in becoming prime minister.

Mr. Hun Sen’s eldest son, Hun Manet, a graduate of the United States Military Academy at West Point, is widely considered to be angling for the job of commander in chief. The prime minister’s second son, Hun Manith, is rising in the intelligence services.

“We have to remember that democracy is an important pillar, but it is not the only one,” said Mr. Hun Many, who was educated in the United States and Australia.

Mr. Hun Sen’s Chinese backers echo the importance of stability.

“Under the leadership of Lord Prime Minister Hun Sen, Cambodia has maintained peaceful development and enjoyed lively economic growth,” Xiong Bo, the Chinese ambassador, said at the Mekong ceremony.

Cambodia achieved 6.9 percent economic growth last year. In 2005, half of Cambodians lived below the poverty line. Less than a decade later, fewer than 14 percent did.

But even as millions of rural residents have graduated to factory work, expectations are rising along with income levels. Security officers have responded to workers’ protests with bullets.

That puts all the more pressure on Mr. Hun Sen to attract Chinese money. Western investors have been put off by Cambodia’s endemic corruption, not to mention the official anti-Western rhetoric.

In Sihanoukville, business is booming. In the coastal backwater once popular with Western backpackers, 20 new casinos have opened in the past two years. A dozen more are scheduled to begin operations this year.

The clientele is almost exclusively from China; Chinese arrivals to Sihanoukville rose by nearly 200 percent last year.

On day five of business at the Chinese-owned New MGM casino last month, Chinese gamblers could be seen placing bets of $100,000 in the V.I.P. room. Chinese managers oversaw the till while Cambodian prostitutes napped nearby.

Mr. Hun Sen’s vacation villa is across the street from the New MGM.

In late January, Yun Min, the governor of Preah Sihanouk Province, wrote an internal report warning that so many Chinese workers had descended on Sihanoukville that the local economy was suffering. He denounced the influence of Chinese gangsters.

“Some mischievous people,” he cautioned in the report, might use Sihanoukville’s makeover “to attack and influence the Cambodia-China relationship.”

Mr. Hun Sen publicly dismissed Mr. Yun Min’s criticism. Less than a week later, the governor seemed chastened.

“Like in any family, we might have disagreements with China,” said Mr. Yun Min, sitting in his office, a Chinese construction crane hovering above. “But our Lord Prime Minister Hun Sen is very clear that we still love our family.”