Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching: 

• What to expect from Powell’s first Fed meeting.

• Trump, tariffs and the G20.

• Pressure continues to mount on Facebook.

• Facebook had a terrible day.

• So did Uber.

• Leaders at the G-20 summit are still trying to avert a trade war.

Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.

Federal Reserve policymakers conclude their March rate-setting meeting on Wednesday. It is the first such session with Jerome H. Powell as the central bank’s new chairman.

With the job market tight and inflation picking up only gradually, the Fed is widely expected to raise rates by a quarter of a percentage point in what is likely to be the first of three rate increases this year.

After the meeting, Mr. Powell will hold his first news conference in his new role, where observers will be listening closely for any suggestion that the Fed might depart from its anticipated path, and, if so, why.

Here’s a look at what economists and money managers are expecting:

Jan Hatzius, Goldman Sachs: “Public remarks by Fed officials suggest a broad shift in the committee’s outlook towards a potentially faster pace of tightening, and we expect the median dot to show four hikes in 2018, up from three at the December meeting. Additional hawkish changes—a move to three hikes in 2019 or an increase in the longer-run funds rate estimates—are also possible but not our base case.”

Michelle Meyer, Bank of America Merrill Lynch: Ms. Meyer says she expects the Fed raise rates this meeting, but “unlike December where there were two dissents, we expect this decision to be unanimous given the shift in voters this year in the hawkish direction. The focus will be on the evolution of the dots: we look for the median to hold at three hikes for this year, but to shift up from two to three hikes in 2019. We also think the long-run dot will edge up to 2.875%. This would show a Fed that is more confident about its ability to deliver rate hikes, but without an urgency to front-load the tightening.”

Ian Shepherdson, Pantheon Macroeconomics: Mr. Powell “is bound to be faced with questions along the lines of “Why are you not raising the dots in the wake of the substantial, unfunded fiscal easing?”. His reply, we suspect, will be something like: “It’s not our job to tell Congress how to conduct fiscal policy, and it’s too soon to assess the impact of the tax cuts and spending increases. Much of the easing of policy could be saved rather than spent, and there are encouraging signs that productivity is picking up, so any upturn in wage growth as a result of fiscal loosening need not necessarily generate higher inflation. In any event, with inflation well below target, gradual normalization is the best way to balance the risks of both future inflation and the premature ending of the cycle via excessive tightening.”

Stephen Stanley, Amherst Pierpont: “The bulk of the interest in this week’s F.O.M.C. meeting will come from the updated dot and economic projections as well as any meaningful tweaks to the key elements of the F.O.M.C. statement. Any changes to the dots and statement language are likely to be in the hawkish direction, though I would expect that the new information will be more evolutionary than a radically different.”

Steve Rick, CUNA Mutual Group: There is “a very strong case for not only raising rates this week, but potentially doing so in a more aggressive manner than previously forecasted at the end of 2017. I think we could see projections get updated to call for four hikes instead of three, with plans for lifting rates more in coming years as well.”

Chris Zaccarelli, Independent Advisor Alliance: “Whether we have 3 or 4 rate hikes this year shouldn’t be that big of a difference to the economy, but it WILL have a big impact on market prices and market psychology. Every statement – whether spoken or written – will be highly scrutinized looking for clues as to whether the Fed Funds rate will be 1% higher (or only 75 bps) a year from now.”

President Trump’s plan to hit countries around the world with stiff tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum has dominated a gathering of world economic leaders amid fears that the United States is on the cusp of starting an international trade war.

On Monday, Steven Mnuchin, the United States Treasury secretary, was peppered with requests from several countries for exemptions from the tariffs, which are being imposed in the name of national security.

In an interview on the sidelines of the meeting, Mr. Mnuchin suggested exemptions to the tariffs could be announced “relatively quickly.”

Mr. Mnuchin said:

Mr. Trump has already said he would exempt Canada and Mexico from the tariffs upon a successful renegotiation of the North American Free Trade Agreement, and he has indicated that other countries could also get exemptions. But the United States has yet to detail exactly what would qualify a country for an exemption, other than a vague reference to protecting the United States’ national security and reducing bilateral trade deficits.

Countries including France, Argentina and South Korea pressed Mr. Mnuchin on Monday about being freed from the metals tariffs, arguing that, as United States allies, they should not be penalized on national security grounds. Mr. Mnuchin said that decisions were being made on a case-by-case basis and that there was not a one-size-fits-all approach to deciding which countries would be exempt. The tariffs go into effect on Friday.

— Alan Rappeport

The Federal Trade Commission has opened an investigation into whether Facebook violated an agreement with the agency on data privacy, reports Cecilia Kang of the NYT.

The probe comes after reports that information on 50 million users was improperly obtained by the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica, according to a person with knowledge of the inquiry.

The investigation, started in recent days, adds to the mounting pressureagainst Facebook in the United States and in the United Kingdom about its handling of the data. Cambridge Analytica used the information to help President Trump’s presidential campaign profile voters during the 2016 election.

The F.T.C. and Facebook reached a settlement in 2011 after the agency accused the company of deceiving customers “by telling them they could keep their information on Facebook private, and then repeatedly allowing it to be shared and made public,” according to a statement at the time.

Facebook could face fines of thousands of dollars a day per violation if the commission finds Facebook violated terms of the settlement, Bloomberg reports.

Shares of Facebook are down 2.5 percent in early trading.

Exhibit A: Its stock closed down nearly 7 percent, its worst performance in four years.

Exhibit B: Its chief security officer, Alex Stamos, plans to leave after disagreements about how much the company should share about misuse of its platform. (He favored disclosure.)

The overall problem: Reports about how the data firm Cambridge Analytica improperly harvested information from 50 million Facebook users are highlighting just how much governments itch to regulate the tech giant.

And Facebook’s previous laissez-faire attitude toward data collection by apps has gone from feature to bug, Kevin Roose writes in his latest column.

Peter Eavis’s take: Mark Zuckerberg’s unusually powerful position at the company may have played a role:

More on Cambridge Analytica: An undercover investigation by Channel 4 News of Britain captured the firm’s C.E.O., Alexander Nix, suggesting the entrapment of a potential client’s political opponents with women and bribes. Britain’s information commissioner is now seeking a warrant to examine the firm’s data. And Facebook has hired a forensics firm to audit it.

Critics’ corner

• Jeff Goldfarb of Breakingviews writes, “Ten years ago, Zuckerberg hired Sheryl Sandberg to help turn his start-up into a serious corporation. It may be time for more adult supervision.”

• The academic Zeynep Tufekci writes, “This wasn’t informed consent. This was the exploitation of user data and user trust.”

• Cass Sunstein of Bloomberg View writes, “It would be a mistake to take the fiasco as a reason to keep treasure troves of information out of the hands of people who can provide immensely valuable services with it.”

• Dan Gallagher of Heard on the Street writes, “Facebook’s immense scale also has made it virtually impossible for alternatives to catch on. That, in turn, makes abuse of the platform more urgent for lawmakers.”

Public service announcements: How to protect yourself on Facebook. Oxford Analytica, an advisory group, wants you to know it’s not like that. And a little joke for those steeped in the British university system:

Uber has suspended its autonomous vehicle testing in four cities after a car in self-driving mode struck and killed a woman in Tempe, Ariz. Until now, regulators had been increasingly open to testing: Just this month, California said it would start letting self-driving cars operate without anyone behind the wheel. Arizona already had.

The head of Carnegie Mellon’s self-driving car lab has urged a halt to testing, telling Axios, “The technology is not there yet.”

The virtual currencies corner: The White House banned Venezuela’s virtual currency in a new round of sanctions. Morgan Stanley analysts said Bitcoin looked like the dot-com boom and bust, only way faster. How Zug, Switzerland, became a hotbed for digital money. And the Hong Kong and Australia stock exchanges are working to share blockchain information.

Shares of Oracle are down 9.3 percent this morning

The reason? The software giant reported that its sales missed Wall Street expectations and its guidance disappointed after the close Monday. The lackluster results led analysts to downgrade the stock.

Perhaps more concerning for investors was the slowdown in Oracle’s cloud-computing business last quarter.

Here’s a look at Oracle’s slowing cloud computer growth via Therese Poletti of MarketWatch:

• Fiscal fourth-quarter guidance: up 19 percent to 23 percent.

• Fiscal third quarter: up 32 percent from a year ago.

• Fiscal Second quarter: up 44 percent.

• Fiscal first quarter: up 51 percent

• Fiscal fourth quarter: up 58 percent

The tech flyaround

• Larry Ellison and David Agus, who was Steve Jobs’s doctor, have unveiled a start-up, Sensei, that promises more nutritious food through hydroponic farming. (DealBook)

• Europe’s plans to change how tech companies are taxed could exacerbate tensions with the U.S. (NYT)

• Amazon and Snapchat are chipping away at Google and Facebook’s digital ad duopoly. (The big two are still expected to control well over half the market in 2018.)

• Tech giants ask a lot of Wikipedia — see YouTube’s plans to use its text alongside controversial content — without always giving much back. (NYT)

• Amazon has reportedly considered buying Toys “R” Us stores, for the real estate. (Bloomberg)

• The Israeli historian Yuval Noah Harari worries that tech will transform humanity for the worse within decades. (NYT)

Expect the White House to impose tariffs on some $60 billion worth of Chinese goods this week over what it says are unfair trade practices. But leaders at the G-20 summit meeting continued to push for free trade. More from Andrea Thomas and Paul Kiernan of the WSJ:

And some critics say that Mr. Trump is missing the bigger picture, including the U.S.’s trade surplus in services.

The budget corner: Lawmakers are still trying to finalize a $1.3 trillion spending bill ahead of Friday’s deadline. T hey disagree on health care and immigration.

• Gary Cohn as C.I.A. director? It was apparently considered. And the White House named Chris Liddell, the former Microsoft and G.M. executive, as deputy chief of staff for policy coordination.

• The White House added Joseph diGenova, a lawyer who argued the F.B.I. was out to get President Trump, to its legal team. Mr. Trump has also mused about whether to fire another lawyer, Ty Cobb, and a third, John Dowd, has considered resigning.

• Exploring why some Democrats voted for a Dodd-Frank rollback. (WaPo)

• The dangers facing the continued boom. (NYT)

• The Kochs urged Mr. Trump to accept the Democrats’ compromise on immigration. (Politico)

• The race to find loopholes in the new tax law. (WaPo)

• How that law may end up taxing sports teams’ player trades. (NYT)

Bloomberg interviewed the Saudi royal shortly after his release from the Ritz-Carlton, where Saudi Arabia detained hundreds of businessmen in the name of an anti-corruption campaign.

Mr. bin Talal wouldn’t comment on the deal for his release, but said that he has “forgiven and forgotten” the process, and continues to talk with Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, the cousin who jailed him. More from the interview:

Elsewhere in Saudi Arabia: Behind the bromance between Jared Kushner and the crown prince. Aramco looks increasingly likely to postpone an international listing, focusing on an I.P.O. on its home stock market, the WSJ says. And why the kingdom wants to enrich its own uranium.

Michael Ferro, who is also the media company’s biggest shareholder, stepped down hours before Fortune published an article in which two women accused him of inappropriate advances. Neither worked for him, but both said they had been interacting with him professionally. Mr. Ferro declined to comment on the allegations.

A recap of his tenure: Tribune became “Tronc.” Management opposed a newsroom unionization effort. The company sold its crown jewel, The L.A. Times, after controversies led to the replacement of senior executives.

 Weinstein Company news: The troubled film studio finally filed for bankruptcy protection. And New York state is looking into how the Manhattan district attorney handled 2015 assault allegations against Harvey Weinstein.

Elsewhere in misconduct: A loose coalition of Silicon Valley companies like Airbnb, Dropbox and Stitch Fix are pressuring venture capital firms to diversify their ranks. Female employees at Nike circulated a survey about improper conduct by male colleagues. And a former employee of the celebrity chef Mike Isabella sued him for sexual harassment.

• The Long-Term Stock Exchange and IEX took a step to spread new standards for I.P.O.s. (DealBook)

• Boeing dropped its objection to Rockwell Collins’s sale to United Technologies. (WSJ)

• Bloom Energy has reportedly restarted its I.P.O. planning. (WSJ)

• Cheddar, the CNBC for the Snapchat generation, has raised $22 million from Raine Ventures, Liberty Global and the C.E.O. of the N.Y.S.E.’s parent company. (WSJ)

• Greenhill & Company has hired Neil Augustine from Rothschild as vice chairman and co-head of its of North American financing advisory & restructuring. (Greenhill)

• Germany has named Jörg Kukies, the co-head of Goldman Sachs’s operations in Germany and Austria, as its deputy finance minister. (FT)

• Paul Fishman, the former U.S. attorney for New Jersey, has joined the law firm Arnold & Porter as a partner and the head of its crisis management practice. (Arnold & Porter)

• The S.E.C.’s chairman pressed exchanges to end a standoff that has delayed a massive database of stock and options trading. (WSJ)

• David Calhoun, a senior managing director at Blackstone, will give $20 million to Virginia Tech. (Bloomberg)

• Larry Fink finally threw his lot in with the machines. Will BlackRock’s algorithms beat the fund managers? (FT)

• The jewelry chain Claire’s has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (NYT)

• A case being tried before a National Labor Relations Board court could upend McDonald’s franchise business model by letting unions deal directly with the parent company — if it gets to a verdict. (NYT)

• A court fight in London between two Russian billionaires is testing the Kremlin’s patience. (Bloomberg)

• Federal prosecutors are investigating the fast-growing business of cash advances to plaintiffs in personal injury and other lawsuits, according to five lawyers. (NYT)

• British and E.U. negotiators agreed on the terms of a 21-month transition period to keep Britain inside Europe’s economic structures. It depends on a broader agreement on Britain’s withdrawal, which is by no means certain. (NYT)

• White boys who grow up rich are likely to remain that way. That’s not the case for black boys. (NYT)

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

WILLIAMSTON, S.C. — The high-resolution image had been captured by a bank’s surveillance camera, and when Phillip Clardy saw it on the local news, it left no doubt in his mind: The big, bald bull of a man robbing the place — the man who had, strangely, not even bothered to wear a mask — was Richard Inman, the town’s former police chief.

Mr. Inman had been forced to resign as head of the Williamston Police Department in 2011 after Mr. Clardy, a former mayor, brought to light the racially provocative jokes that Mr. Inman had posted on his Facebook page. Mr. Inman turned in his badge with little drama or complaint. And that seemed to bring the story to a close.

But now here was Mr. Inman, six years later, captured on the surveillance camera at the Bank of America just up Highway 25 in Simpsonville, his expressionless face offering no clues about the gears churning behind it. The police accused Mr. Inman 48, of walking into the bank on the morning of June 24 in a pair of khaki shorts, giving the teller a note that stated he was armed and fleeing with an undisclosed amount of cash. Mr. Inman was arrested two and a half hours later in Franklin County, Ga. He remains in custody at the Greenville County Detention Center.

And so, this working-class town of 4,000 people was moved to ponder how, exactly, their former chief’s mug shot ended up in a $1.50 scandal sheet, The Jail Report, on sale at the Sav Way filling station.

Had Mr. Inman’s Facebook transgressions snared him in a professional purgatory from which he could not escape? Did all of this have something to do with the brain surgery Mr. Inman underwent while in office — the one some said had affected his personality? Was it something more complicated? Something less?

“It’s like he didn’t even care,” said Sydney Lawson, 26, an employee of a storefront cash-loan business, marveling that a former lawman would neglect to wear a mask to a bank heist.

“I’m a retired state trooper, man, so don’t nothing surprise me,” said Mark Perry, 46, who was waiting for a trim recently at Turner’s Barber and Style Shop. “Anyone can be a cop. And anyone can turn out to be a criminal.”

Mr. Inman took over as chief here in July 2009, after about 15 years at other law enforcement agencies around upstate South Carolina. “My goal is to see every citizen treated with fairness and respect,” he told The Anderson Independent-Mail when his hiring was announced.

Phyllis Lollis, the former town administrator, said that Mr. Inman came with strong recommendations and the bonus of a college degree. Carthel Crout, the mayor at the time, said that Mr. Inman proved to be an able administrator of the 17-officer force, instituting a neighborhood watch and cracking down on drug dealers.

A few months into his tenure, Ms. Lollis said, Mr. Inman had a brain tumor removed, and from that point he seemed less focused. “When he came back he was totally different,” she said, “and we knew that he was on a lot of medication.”

In summer 2011, Mr. Clardy, who served as mayor before Mr. Crout, brought the chief’s Facebook posts to the attention of the Town Council. One of the posts, according to The Independent-Mail, referred to a portable toilet as a “Mexican spaceship.” In another, Mr. Inman listed the languages he spoke: “sarcasm (fluent), Ethiopian, Semitic, Afrikaans and jive.”

Mr. Crout — who, like Mr. Inman and 90 percent of the town, is white — declared that the chief had “put a shadow over the town of Williamston.” Mr. Inman did not see a problem with the posts and said he thought they were funny.

“Richard didn’t get upset when the mayor asked for his resignation,” recalled Ms. Lollis, who said she believed Mr. Inman was not a racist. “He didn’t raise his voice. He was very calm. As a matter of fact, I was sitting there, and I said, ‘Richard, how could you be so stupid?’

“He said, ‘I don’t know.’ And I couldn’t help the tears just start to flowing.”

Ms. Lollis stayed in touch with Mr. Inman for a few years. She said he struggled to find work. Mr. Crout said Mr. Inman had been living with his mother. Mr. Inman’s family members declined to comment.

“I’m certain I haven’t talked to him in several years, but occasionally he’d text or he’d send a meme or some Seinfeld quote, just random stuff,” said A. Keith Morton, chief of the Fountain Inn, S.C., Police Department, where Mr. Inman worked from 2001 to 2009.

Records provided by the South Carolina Criminal Justice Academy show that Mr. Inman did not work anywhere in the state as a law enforcement officer after his resignation in Williamston.

“Most police chiefs probably subscribe to the same theory as I, which is that I don’t need any help looking stupid,” said Mr. Morton, who has served as Fountain Inn’s chief for nearly 25 years. The advent of the social media age and its attendant pitfalls, Mr. Morton said, has prompted him to reflect on his father’s homespun admonition to err on the side of discretion: “God gave you two ears and a mouth, boy. You just listen twice as much as you talk.”

Williamston, once a mill town, is now a bedroom community for workers in the auto and auto parts plants around booming Greenville. It is dotted with empty storefronts, and vacation Bible school is a summertime main event.

Amber Rumsey, 28, Ms. Lawson’s co-worker at the cash-advance business, said Williamston was the kind of place that makes social media redundant. “You don’t need Facebook to know everybody’s business,” she said.

Some still hold a personal grudge against Mr. Inman. Ludy Garcia, 47, suspected him of anti-Hispanic bias when he stopped by her house and demanded that she separate the small sticks from the large branches among her yard waste. Ms. Garcia’s sister, Maria Vasquez, accused the police of that era of subjecting Hispanic drivers to racial profiling.

“Karma is karma,” she said.

Tony Hagood, an African-American who is the only minority member on the town’s council, said he was unsurprised by Mr. Inman’s troubles. The 2011 Facebook posts, he said, revealed something about the man’s character. He quoted from the Book of Luke: “That which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.”

Here in Anderson County, nearly 70 percent of voters supported Donald J. Trump in the November election. Despite Mr. Trump’s searing put-downs on Twitter, many conservatives maintain that for lesser public figures like Mr. Inman, certain rules of decorum and political correctness still apply.

At the McDonald’s recently, no one in a group of white regulars meeting for their daily bull session came to the defense of Mr. Inman’s 2011 Facebook posts.

“Words have consequences,” said Greg Cothran, 47, the owner of a towing company.

A few minutes later, Mr. Crout sauntered in, ordered a biscuit and took his place among the men. He said that Mr. Inman was a good police officer, but one who had made a “dumb” mistake in 2011 and had not done his job so well after his surgery.

When Mr. Crout saw the image from the bank, he knew it was Mr. Inman. And yet, he said: “I hurt for him. Because that’s not him.”

The conversation moved on to more mundane subjects. Mr. Crout said his tomatoes were finally ripening on the vine. He asked if anyone had heard about the 14-pound baby boy delivered up in Lexington, and somebody wondered if he had been recruited to play football yet.

When Hilary Mason, a data scientist and entrepreneur, discovered that dozens of automated “bot” accounts had sprung up to impersonate her on Twitter, she immediately set out to stop them.

She filed dozens of complaints with Twitter, repeatedly submitting copies of her driver’s license to prove her identity. She reached out to friends who worked at the company. But days later, many of the fake accounts remained active, even though virtually identical ones had been shut down.

Millions of accounts impersonating real people roam social media platforms, promoting commercial products and celebrities, attacking political candidates and sowing discord. They spread fake images and misinformation about the school shooting last week in Parkland, Fla. They were central to Russian attempts to sway the 2016 presidential election in favor of Donald J. Trump, according to a federal grand jury indictment on Friday. And American intelligence officials believe they will figure in Russian efforts to shape the coming midterm elections, too.

Yet social media companies often fail to vigorously enforce their own policies against impersonation, an examination by The New York Times found, enabling the spread of fake news and propaganda — and allowing a global black market in social identities to thrive on their platforms.

Facebook and Twitter require proof of identity to shut down an impostor account but none to set one up. And even as social media accounts evolve into something akin to virtual passports — for shopping, political activity and even gaining access to government services — technology companies have devised their own rules and standards, with little oversight or regulation from Washington.

“These companies have, in a lot of ways, assigned themselves to be validators of your identity,” said Jillian York, an official at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, which advocates digital privacy protections. “But the vast majority of users have no access to any due process, no access to any kind of customer service — and no means of appealing any kind of decision.”

Some impostor accounts are set up as pranks. Millions of them are controlled by private companies that sell fake followers and other forms of social media engagement to celebrities, professional athletes and authors. Many others are deployed in systematic information warfare campaigns waged by governments.

In congressional hearings last week, some lawmakers questioned whether social media businesses were doing enough.

“I think the companies themselves were slow to recognize this threat,” said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia. “I think they’ve still got more work to do.”

Leaders of some social media companies have said they are trying hard to grapple with impersonation. In an earnings call this month, Jack Dorsey, Twitter’s chief executive, said the company was expanding what it calls “information quality” efforts, including ways of elevating credible and authentic content on the platform.

Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wrote in a Facebook post in January that the company had nearly doubled the number of workers who review content for fake news and abuse, including impersonation.

Facebook’s terms of service prohibit impersonation and require that account holders generally use their real names. Twitter, however, allows parody accounts and pseudonyms, and only forbids impersonation when that account portrays another user “in a misleading or deceptive manner.” The company does not proactively review accounts for impersonation.

That policy can leave real users mystified or enraged. In December, Firoozeh Dumas, an Iranian-American memoirist who lives in Germany, repeatedly reported to Twitter at least four accounts impersonating hers. “They have my photos, they tweet things from my books,” she said. “One of them seems to be selling things.”

Yet each time Ms. Dumas reported them, emails show, Twitter’s support team told her the accounts did not meet its definition of abusive impersonation.

A Times investigation last month found that many real accounts are copied and turned into automated “bots” sold by companies like Devumi, a firm now based in Colorado that is under investigation by attorneys general in Florida and New York. (Through a spokesman, Devumi has denied selling fake accounts.)

One victim was Erin Barnes, a publicist and writer in Colorado. A bot sold by Devumi used not only her name and portrait, but also a background photograph of her husband and young daughter. “It makes my skin crawl,” Ms. Barnes said.

The account was suspended only recently, after Ms. Barnes — alerted by The Times — reported it to Twitter. “If you’re using somebody’s photos and name together, then that’s impersonation,” she complained.

Twitter appears to be tracking Devumi’s network of bots. Since the Times investigation was published, dozens of Devumi’s most prominent clients — actors, reality TV stars, authors, business executives and others seeking to buy followers and retweets — have lost more than three million followers. Close to 55,000 impostor accounts sold by Devumi have been restricted or suspended.

Twitter has declined to say whether Devumi’s bots violate its impersonation policy, or how many of its employees are focused on rooting out impersonation. The company’s first line of defense against impersonation is the countermeasures that flag accounts that run afoul of Twitter policies on spam — violations that can be easier for the platform to identify and stop at large scale.

But impostor accounts are still relatively easy to find on Twitter. The Times identified hundreds more of them through Twitter’s own automated “who to follow” feature: When a user views a known impostor account, Twitter routinely recommends other impostor accounts to follow.

One real Twitter account, belonging to Jasmine Artis, a health care worker from North Carolina, was cloned dozens of times. At least 75 of those impostor accounts still exist — though some have recently been restricted — each using her picture, her name and a brief bio that refers to the school she was attending when her account was copied. Most of the clones have made only a handful of posts, some in Russian or Japanese. Ms. Artis said she had not been aware of the accounts.

Even Twitter’s “verified” users, many of them well known, are being impersonated. There are active fake accounts impersonating the Democratic senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, the White House adviser Kellyanne Conway and the journalist April D. Ryan. None appeared to be obvious parodies. Instead, each posted content that mimicked what the real account might tweet.

Both Facebook and Twitter rely in part on their users to report impostors and abuse. But the companies’ enforcement decisions can seem arbitrary. In January, Antonia Caliboso, a social worker in Seattle, discovered an impostor Facebook account using her name, biographical information and a photo, all lifted from a 2013 news release about a fellowship she had won.

Ms. Caliboso and dozens of her friends reported the fake account to Facebook over a period of weeks. But Facebook representatives repeatedly told her the account did not violate the company’s impersonation policies, she said. Eventually, to protect herself, Ms. Caliboso deleted her real account.

“I can’t risk that a client or employer — past, present or future — might find that profile,” she said.

Last week, Facebook reversed its position: The account was shut down, according to an email Ms. Caliboso received on Feb. 10, “because it goes against our community standard on identity and privacy.”

Social media companies succeed in the marketplace by amassing as many active users as possible, so most make it relatively easy to create new accounts. Neither Facebook nor Twitter requires proof of identity to open a new account, but both require it when reporting impostors. Decisions about whether to take down or suspend an account are automated wherever possible, or farmed out to teams of low-level employees and contractors around the world.

As a result, on most social media platforms it is far easier to build a bot than to kill one.

“The reason that they’re so bad at this is that it conflicts with their business model,” said Zeynep Tufekci, a sociologist and technology expert at the University of North Carolina. “They try to come up with one set of rules that applies to two billion people, and then simplify it so that a contractor in a warehouse in the Philippines can go click-click-click and apply the policy.”

Ms. Mason, the data scientist, eventually took matters into her own hands. After she filed dozens of impersonation reports to Twitter in 2015, the company suspended many of the impostors, but left dozens untouched.

So she created more than 100 bots of her own, using as many variations of her name as she could think of. Each linked back to her real account, with the message “the real hmason is over there.” Eventually, Ms. Mason’s homegrown bots, and Twitter’s own efforts, seemed to overwhelm the impostors, she said, and the surge in fake accounts stopped.

“With Twitter, it was easy” to make bots, Ms. Mason said. “I was shocked by how easy it was.”