Breitbart News is taking a step into the live events business.

Following the lead of other media companies seeking fresh sources of revenue, the right-wing news and opinion site is set to host its first-ever town hall in suburban New Orleans next month, a panel on privacy and technology with the commentator Ann Coulter and Peter Schweizer, the author of “Clinton Cash.”

It’s an experiment for a site that has lately been confronting declining web traffic and turbulence in its top ranks. Stephen K. Bannon, the site’s longtime executive chairman, was forced out in January. Its page views last month were down by nearly half from a year earlier, according to the data-tracking firm comScore, though Breitbart disputes the figure.

The Louisiana event is “the latest evolution in how to consume Breitbart content,” said Alexander Marlow, the site’s editor in chief.

By branching into public forums, the site is taking a cue from one of its perennial foes: the mainstream media. News outlets like Vanity Fair, The Washington Post and The New York Times have long sponsored conferences and speaking events.

The Breitbart event is to be held on April 5 at Andrea’s, an Italian restaurant in Metairie, La. The topic — the gatekeeping power of Facebook and other online platforms — coincides with a broader conservative offensive against Big Tech. Breitbart is one of several right-wing sites that have accused Facebook, Google and Twitter of suppressing right-wing voices, claims that the tech companies have denied.

The panel will be live-streamed — on Facebook.

Mr. Marlow, who will serve as moderator, said that tickets to the event would be free and that costs would be partly covered by Free Our Internet, a group that bills itself as “fighting the tech-left’s takeover of the internet.”

Mr. Schweizer, who collaborated with Mr. Bannon on his investigations into Hillary Clinton, is finishing a documentary about the role of tech companies in filtering the news. Another scheduled guest, Robert Epstein, a former editor of Psychology Today, is expected to be featured in Mr. Schweizer’s film.

Breitbart was a champion of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, which Mr. Bannon eventually joined. The site has been denounced as misogynist, racist and xenophobic, and its writers routinely flog the establishment media: Last year, its reporters worked to undercut reporting by The Washington Post about misconduct by Roy Moore, the Republican Senate candidate in Alabama.

Mr. Bannon’s ouster, from the White House and then from Breitbart, cut into the site’s cachet. But Breitbart is still among the top-ranked sites on Facebook, and several of its journalists were treated as celebrities at last month’s Conservative Political Action Conference.

Facebook’s handling of its users’ data has come under scrutiny in part because of a scandal involving Cambridge Analytica, a company that worked on the Trump campaign and was co-founded by Mr. Bannon. Facebook has banned the company from its platform, saying it misused personal data from Facebook that was provided to it.

Mr. Marlow said he knew little about Mr. Bannon’s role in the company, though he defended Cambridge Analytica as engaging in the same kind of data-driven electioneering that left-leaning groups have done in the past.

Imagine you’re a cookie mogul. You figured out a way to make lots of money by giving away delicious cookies for free, and in less than a decade, you created a global cookie behemoth.

But recently your cookie kingdom has begun to crumble. Scientists are worried that people are eating so many of your cookies that they’re making themselves sick — yet they keep eating more, because who can say no to free cookies? There are concerns that your cookies are crowding out the market for normal food; after your success, fruit and vegetable companies have pivoted to free cookies, and now much of the global food supply is just cookies. Rising cookie addiction might even have helped a foreign government influence your country’s election.

So you decide to do something. You convene your best bakers, and you tell them, look, from now on, we don’t just care about how many free cookies we can shove into people’s gullets. We want to take a holistic look at the overall cookie experience. We want people to eat some cookies, sure, but we don’t want them to eat too many, so we will have to make our free cookies less addictive and more “meaningful.” Let’s maybe put carrots and kale and broccoli in the cookies.

What sort of cookie company wants people to eat fewer cookies?

One named Facebook, apparently.

On Thursday, Mark Zuckerberg announced that as part of his effort to turn the social network into a force for good, the company would make a significant change to its News Feed. The feed — the list of status updates the app displays on its primary screen — will prioritize posts that elicit what Facebook calls “meaningful” interactions with friends and family, and will downgrade things like links to articles and videos, which it says encourages you to passively scroll through the News Feed.

The effort sounds helpful, even noble, given that Mr. Zuckerberg acknowledged the change could be bad for business in the short run. But if you think about Facebook’s primary service as free cookies rather than social networking, the underlying difficulties with the plan become obvious, and even existential.

Do people really want a more “meaningful” Facebook any more than they want healthy cookies? Didn’t we get hooked on Facebook for its easy outrages in the first place — for the sugar, not for the broccoli? And if Facebook’s underlying business model is based on how much time we all spend eating there, can the company ever truly resist the pressure to keep plying us with more cookies?

These questions don’t mean that Mr. Zuckerberg’s new plan will fail. But if he really does want to make the time we spend on Facebook count as “time well spent,” I suspect Facebook will have to change much more radically than it is now letting on. It can’t just become a slightly healthier cookie company; it may have to get out of the sugar business altogether. And what, then, happens to all those billions in future profits? (On Friday, the stock market seemed to harbor the same worry; Facebook’s stock fell 4.5 percent.)

Mr. Zuckerberg says his concerns are raised by research showing that some uses of social networking make people feel bad about themselves. As two of Facebook’s researchers described in a recent blog post, mindlessly reading the News Feed without interacting much — just scrolling and pressing Like occasionally — was associated with lower mental well-being.

But a study that Facebook’s scientists conducted with outside researchers found that deeper sharing on the network — “sharing messages, posts and comments with close friends and reminiscing about past interactions,” per the blog post — improves a person’s well-being. It’s this sort of activity that Facebook is trying to encourage with the new design. Think of it as the kale cookie of Facebook.

Facebook is conceding that when the good kind of social networking is given priority over the bad kind, people are likely to spend less time on the service. What’s unclear is how much less time. According to data collected by Nielsen and crunched by Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research Group, American adults spent about 37 minutes a day on Facebook in September. What if it turns out that if we’re going to spend only worthwhile time on Facebook, we need only 10 or 15 minutes there a day?

It’s likely that Facebook has a very good idea of how its changes will affect engagement; the company is obsessive about running experiments and modeling its changes using data, and it probably would not have pushed this change if the numbers were catastrophic.

But its modeling is most likely only a guide to the short term. What Facebook can’t predict is how the outside world might react — how users, advertisers, investors and competitors will alter their behavior in the face of a less immediately engaging News Feed.

Mr. Zuckerberg is a famously fierce and ruthless competitor. If it looks like Facebook’s business is starting to suffer because of the healthier News Feed, and if some competitor comes along to offer us all the free cookies that Facebook is denying us, I doubt Mr. Zuckerberg will be able to stick to his guns.

There is a story that veterans at Facebook like to tell to illustrate the power of the News Feed. When Facebook first unveiled the feed back in 2006, many users hated it. They thought a running list of people’s status updates was a kind of invasion of privacy — before, updates were hidden on people’s walls — and lots of people mobilized against it.

People started creating Facebook groups promising to boycott Facebook, and within days those groups quickly grew to hundreds of thousands of members — the biggest groups that had ever formed on Facebook. Which, oddly, backfired. To the News Feed’s creators, the protests only served to prove the News Feed’s utility; it was only thanks to the viral power of the News Feed that people were able to mobilize against News Feed.

All these years later, the story also suggests how hard it will be to alter the purpose of the feed. The News Feed’s killer app has always been easy, viral outrage. It’s always been just clicking Like on something you’re kinda, sorta passionate about, then forgetting about it.

It’s always been cookies, not broccoli. It’s hard to see how that changes now.

Good Monday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• Best day for stocks in nearly three years.

• A reality check on the White House’s tariff tactics.

• Tim Cook and other C.E.O.s took shots at Facebook.

• Eddie Lampert finally speaks about Sears.

• Washington and Beijing hold trade talks.

Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.

Stocks on Wall Street surged on signs of easing trade tensions.

The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 669 points, or 2.8 percent, the S.&P. 500 surged 2.7 percent and the tech-heavy Nasdaq Composite climbed 3.3 percent.

It was the largest one-day point gain for the Dow since October 2008, according to The WSJ, and the biggest one-day percentage gain for S.&P. 500 and Dow since August 2015.

Worries that the Trump administration’s protectionist policies could ignite a trade war between the world’s two largest economies punished equities last week. American stocks endured their worst week in two years as the Dow lost 1,400 points, or 5.7 percent.

Tensions seemed to relax over the weekend. The WSJ reported late Sunday that “China and the U.S. have quietly started negotiating to improve U.S. access to Chinese markets.” Also, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in an interview that he’s “cautiously hopeful” that China will reach a deal to avoid tariffs.

Shares jumped at the open and the momentum gained through the day as last week’s hardest hit sectors led the way.

• The S.&P. 500 technology sector rose 4 percent. Microsoft and Apple gained 7.6 percent and 4.8 percent, respectively.

• The KBW Bank Index climbed 3 percent on Monday, after tumbling 8 percent last week. Bank of America finished up 4.4 percent, while Morgan Stanley gained 4.3 percent. The two stocks had fallen nearly 5 percent on Friday.

• Even Facebook, which was down 6.5 percent earlier in the day from the continued fallout from the Cambridge Analytica scandal, was able to eek out gains. The stock finished up 0.4 percent higher.

• Gun stocks were the exception. Shares of publicly traded firearms companies fell in the wake Remington Outdoor bankruptcy filing and this weekend rallies for gun control. American Outdoor Brands fell 2.3 percent, Vista Outdoor dropped 3.8 percent and Sturm, Ruger & Co. slipped less than 1 percent.

Investors last week looked at President Trump’s tariffs against Chinese products and seemed to conclude that he was taking the U.S. into a trade war with China. The stock market plunged 6 percent.

Perhaps eager to stop the rout, the White House on Monday had a less confrontational message: Mr. Trump is applying one of his negotiating tactics. According to this view, the tariff proposal was a jarring move partly aimed at getting China to see that the U.S. was serious about wanting to make trade with China fairer.

From a CNBC interview with Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers:

Mr. Hassett’s comments were in response to a WSJ article reporting that China and the U.S. were quietly engaged in trade negotiations.

Investors seemed somewhat relieved: The stock market was up 1.5 percent on Monday. Of course, if the stakes are small enough, a deal may get done in the coming months that allows both sides to claim victory. But it seems unlikely that China would quickly agree to a far-reaching overhaul of the rules that govern foreign investment in the country, a major area of dispute. Our colleagues Raymond Zhong and Paul Mozur showed the depth of the divide there.

Mr. Trump could up the ante if China shows no real signs that it will open up considerably. That could roil the markets again. The White House may want to signal that it can take market turmoil in stride. Mr. Hassett on Monday seemed to say that the White House expects market sell-offs as it pursues its trade agenda.

(Rising risk premiums means investors require a better return on their stocks and bonds to cover higher risks. This usually involves a decline in price to make their returns look better to prospective buyers.)

Still, the more conciliatory tone from the White House after the sell-off suggests there is not a strong desire for a full-on trade war.

— Peter Eavis

The stock is down 6.5 percent Monday morning as the Federal Trade Commission confirmed that it has opened an investigation into Facebook’s privacy practice.

Also on Monday, Senator Chuck Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, invited Mr. Zuckerberg to testify about privacy standards next month and also extended the invitation to Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, and Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.

Facebook’s shares are down nearly 22 percent since its high in early February and off more than 18 percent since the Cambridge Analytica scandal broke more than a week ago.

To put Facebook’s recent tumble in perspective: The stock is set for its worst monthly performance since August 2012. Over the past 10 days, Facebook has lost $100 billion in market value.

Despite the fall, Wall Street has not soured on Facebook. Forty-four analysts have buy ratings on the stock, compare to just two who have sell ratings, according to Bloomberg.

The Apple C.E.O. said at the China Development Forum in Beijing that the government should tighten privacy regulations, after last week’s revelations about Facebook and Cambridge Analytica:

Apple often uses privacy as a selling point, but Mr. Cook wasn’t the only critic. Elon Musk deleted SpaceX and Tesla’s Facebook pages, saying that the Tesla one “looks lame anyway.” Sir Martin Sorrell of the ad giant WPP said Facebook needed to “step up to the mark” and be responsible for content on its platform. And some companies have stopped buying ads on Facebook, highlighting how advertisers want more transparency about performance. (Users also complained that the Android app tracked calls and text messages.)

Meanwhile, Facebook took out full-page ads in several British and American newspapers — including the NYT — for an apology signed by Mark Zuckerberg.

Elsewhere in Cambridge Analytica news: A volunteer for the campaign for Britain to leave the E.U. said that a Canadian data company linked to Cambridge Analytica had played a role in the organization’s work. Groups campaigning against Brexit have written to Prime Minister Theresa May demanding an investigation into what members of her cabinet and her staff knew.

Andrew’s take

Mr. Cook’s points on privacy are absolutely right. But he has a tough needle to thread, given that Apple does business in China and acknowledges that it is “subject to each country’s laws” that it does business in. Apple encrypts all user data and says there is no back door — and I believe that — most security and political experts have speculated that Beijing might ultimately be able to gain access iCloud data for Chinese customers: It adopted a law requiring all cloud services to be operated by Chinese companies. Apple says that it lobbied against the new law, but ultimately complied.

As for Facebook’s ad, take note of this: “We expect there are others. And when we find them, we will ban them and tell everyone affected.” Settle in for more episodes before this soap opera ends.

Elsewhere in privacy: Growing calls for privacy could seriously dent the business model of ad-supported internet. Federal law enforcement officials are renewing a push for a legal mandate that would allow access to encrypted data in criminal investigations.

The activist investor’s fund, Third Point, has built a position in United Technologies, according to an antitrust filing.

He is the second activist investor to reveal a stake in the United Technologies during the past 30 days. On Feb. 28, Bill Ackman told CNBC that his Pershing Square had a position in the defense contractor.

Context 

At a conference late last month, Greg Hayes, the chief executive of United Technologies, said the company was thinking of splitting up:

Shares of United Technologies are up nearly 3 percent on Monday.

Gebr Knauf disclosed in a filing on Monday that it had offered to buy USG for $42 a share, or about $6 billion. That marked a 25 percent premium to USG closing price on Friday.

In rejecting the offer, USG said the proposal substantially undervalued the building products maker.

Knauf owns 10.5 percent of USG, making Knauf the second-largest shareholder in USG behind Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway with a 31 percent stake.

Berkshire had proposed an option for Knauf to buy Berkshire’s stake in USG, according to the filing. The option would be exercisable only if Knauf bought all of USG’s shares outstanding for at least $42. Berkshire proposed an option purchase price of $2 per share.

From Reuters:

Shares of USG are up 19 percent Monday.

With Sears Holdings increasingly desperate in its efforts to stay afloat, the company’s C.E.O. gave his first in-depth interview in roughly 15 years to William D. Cohan of Vanity Fair. Mr. Lampert spoke about his past successes and his current travails as the head of the troubled retailer. (Mr. Cohan also spoke with Renaldo Rose, the man who spearheaded the kidnapping of Mr. Lampert in 2003.)

The money quote, from Mr. Lampert:

A bonus quote on Steven Mnuchin, Mr. Lampert’s college roommate and a director of Sears before becoming Treasury secretary, from Mark Cohen, the former C.E.O. of Sears Canada:

After a Friday that saw the markets sink amid fears of a trade war, the U.S. and China are holding high-level talks to defuse tensions, the WSJ reports. Leading them: Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Liu He, Beijing’s economic czar.

Among Washington’s requests, in a letter to Mr. Liu, were lower Chinese tariffs on American cars and more freedom for Wall Street firms to expand in China.

Mr. Mnuchin told “Fox News Sunday” that he believed the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve was to blame for recent market declines, not tariffs. He added, “We’re not afraid of a trade war, but that’s not our objective.”

News of the talks have lifted markets in Asia and Europe, while S.&P. 500 futures jumped this morning. It will also undoubtedly ease the fears of C.E.O.s, economists and foreign leaders and allies who have openly fretted about the prospect of a trade war. A sample quote, from Larry Fink of BlackRock: “The world does not need a public fight in which we reduce future opportunities.”

• Stormy Daniels told “60 Minutes” that she signed a nondisclosure agreement, for which she received $130,000, about an alleged affair with Donald J. Trump because she was worried about her safety and that of her daughter. “Leave Trump alone,” a stranger told her in 2011. Read the NYT profile of her from this weekend.

•  President Trump decided not to add Joseph diGenova and Victoria Toensing to his legal defense team in the special counsel’s investigation. That team now largely consists of one lawyer, Jay Sekulow.

• The spotlight has fallen on Elliott Broidy, a top Republican fund-raiser who promised White House access to his investment and defense contractor clients. (NYT)

• How Jared Kushner is quietly trying to mend U.S.-Mexico relations. (NYT)

• What to expect from John Bolton, the new national security adviser. (Axios)

On a weekend in which millions turned out for student-led rallies for gun control, Remington Outdoor officially sought Chapter 11 protection in Delaware. The biggest problems for the firearms maker: too much debt after being sold to Cerberus Capital Management, and a drop in gun sales after Hillary Clinton lost the presidential election in 2016.

On guns and politics: Brad Karp and Christopher Boehning of the law firm Paul Weiss argue that firearms manufacturers should lose legal immunity to lawsuits tied to gun deaths. Saturday’s marches could make gun control a potent issue in the midterm elections. And the U.S.’s broad support for gun control has many nuances.

The media mogul spoke to Maureen Dowd of the NYT about: President Trump (not a fan); the current state of the media business (bullish on Netflix, bearish on Hollywood); and cloning his late dog, Shannon (he did it). Here’s what he had to say about workplace misconduct:

But he also added, “Other than psychopaths, I think all of this bad behavior is finished.”

The ride-hailing giant finally sealed a deal to sell its Southeast Asian business to the (SoftBank-backed) Grab in exchange for a stake in its competitor. Like the sale of its Chinese and Russian businesses, this gets Uber out of a costly fight as it readies for an I.P.O. next year. But does this mean that Uber is also set to leave other competitive markets, like India?

On self-driving cars: Even before a pedestrian was killed in Tempe, Ariz., Uber was struggling with its autonomous vehicle efforts, needing human intervention nearly every 13 miles on average in Arizona tests. Those technical issues made being an operator of Uber’s cars very stressful.

Elsewhere in tech: Amazon is collecting local taxes, but several cities aren’t seeing a dime. And why haven’t smart kitchen devices taken off?

• SoftBank’s board is investigating who was behind a shareholder campaign that sought the ouster of two of its executives, unnamed sources said. It is also considering a $1 billion investment in a Chinese truck-hailing company, according to unnamed sources.

• After naming Yi Gang the governor of China’s central bank, Beijing has put another reformer, Guo Shuqing, above him as the bank’s Communist Party secretary. (NYT)

• John C. Williams, the president of the San Francisco Fed, is a top candidate to succeed Bill Dudley at the New York Fed. (NYT)

• Duke Tran, who was once a Khmer Rouge slave, has been fighting Wells Fargo for more than four years, saying he was fired for blowing the whistle on deceptive practices. (NYT)

• G.E. sold off much of its lending unit, but investors are worried about what’s left of G.E. Capital. (WSJ)

• Sergio Ermotti said UBS would be looking at small acquisitions to help it grow. (Bloomberg)

• Britain’s JD Sports Fashion has agreed to buy Finish Line, the U.S. sportswear retailer that operates concessions in Macy’s, for $558 million. (Bloomberg)

• Some of the most aggressive and successful labor actions in recent years have erupted when professionals felt their judgment, expertise and autonomy were under assault. (NYT)

• When the elderly call for help in the U.S., it’s often a “chain” immigrant who answers. (NYT)

• Apple is going to Hollywood, but will it find a happy ending? (NYT)

• Ad agencies have long used classical music, but these days it’s more than a jokey device or a signifier of sophistication. (NYT)

• New Japan Pro-Wrestling, backed by Mark Cuban, is out to loosen W.W.E.’s grip on the industry. (NYT)

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.