['Shoppers are buying six-month food supplies wrapped in military-grade Mylar pouches, and kits filled with duct tape, food bars and an air-filtration mask.', 'Some companies that specialize in selling items to people planning for the worst — so-called doomsday preppers — say they have had a bump in sales this week, after tensions rose between the United States and North Korea. Online searches for prepping and survival gear have also jumped.', 'The increase in sales is a turnaround from recent months. Revenue fell after Mr. Trump’s election, according to three of the country’s larger retailers that specialize in selling emergency preparedness.', '“The whole industry kind of took a little pause after the election of Trump,” said Brandon J. Garrett, director of marketing at The Ready Store, which sells a wide range of prep products online and via catalog. “I think everyone was kind of waiting to see what kind of leader he was going to be and where he would take the country.”', '“This week, it kind of seemed that everything picked up,” he said.', 'Emergency gear has its own retail niche, with devotees attending conventions and manufacturers coming up with specialty products. Some in the industry trace its rise to the aftermath of the Hurricane Katrina disaster in New Orleans; others believe it was stoked by those who opposed President Barack Obama’s two terms.', 'Prepper companies sell a wide variety of wares, from 41-pound pails of pinto beans and freeze-dried roasted chicken to fire-starter devices and water filters. Like other retailers, the companies have set up online sites, complete with one-day sales and discount codes. There are also traditional retail emergency readiness stores around the country.', 'Emergency Essentials operates four retail stores in Utah. The stores, in or near strip malls in towns outside of Salt Lake City, look a little like Petco, but the aisles are filled with ready-to-eat meals and solar generators instead of bags of kibble and litter.', 'The company got its start almost 30 years ago selling to members of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints — the church stresses preparedness — but has expanded its business to serve a wider audience across the country, according to Kevan Allbee, a marketing manager for Emergency Essentials.', 'When Mr. Trump won, “sales started a downward decline,” Mr. Allbee said. “In short summary, what we understand is when the left is in power, the right panics.”', 'Shane Sullivan, the company’s president, said that sales at Emergency Essentials on Tuesday, after President Trump made comments to reporters about North Korea, were double their usual amount. And revenue on Wednesday and Thursday surpassed what came in Tuesday.', '“Clearly, when something happens in the world like North Korea right now, it is on people’s minds,” Mr. Sullivan said. “It just causes them to rethink where they stand in the event of war, in the event of job loss, in the event of a natural disaster.”', 'Not every company in the prepper industry has seen an uptick. Joe Marshall, managing editor of Survival Life, a website that supports an online retail operation and the Banana Bay Tactical shop in Austin, Tex., said it was too soon to see an impact on sales.', '“The truth is, there’s been some chatter,” he said, “but for most of our people, they’re already preparing.”', 'Google searches for “prepper” hit their highest level in a month on Tuesday, while searches for “survivalism” neared a high last reached in July, according to Google Trends, a site from the technology giant that shows what users have been researching.', 'Keith Bansemer, vice president for marketing at My Patriot Supply, which sells bulk food, water devices and seeds, said customers have started snapping up the company’s six-month food supplies. They wanted to do something to feel more secure, he explained.', 'By prepping, “you’re actually alleviating fear,” Mr. Bansemer said.', 'Small-business owners have been some of the most vocal opponents of the Affordable Care Act. One trade group fought the overhaul all the way to the Supreme Court.', 'But for many solo entrepreneurs and freelancers, the seeming collapse of the Senate’s efforts to repeal and replace the law came as a relief.', 'Sarah McCarthy, 39, a talent agent in Los Angeles, said President Barack Obama’s health care law allowed her to start her own business. She opened her company in 2013, and for the first two years, her income was low enough that she qualified for subsidized coverage through the state exchange started after the law. That allowed her to put more money into building her business. She now employs a part-time assistant and earns enough to pay the full cost of her health insurance.', 'She fears that the health care law’s elimination would force her or her husband, a self-employed photographer, to work at a large company to gain affordable health coverage for them and their two daughters.', '“Being able to buy health insurance that didn’t completely break us financially was key to our ability to take the risk and become entrepreneurs,” Ms. McCarthy said.', 'Her opposition highlights a growing schism about the Affordable Care Act among small-business owners — a split exposed as Republicans have pursued reversing much of the law in recent months. The divide also points to an unexpected outgrowth of the Republican agenda in Washington: As lawmakers pushed their plans,  public support for the Affordable Care Act grew from new corners.', 'With so many forces aligned in opposition to the Senate’s proposed changes, the views of small-business owners have not been a decisive factor. But the enthusiasm that a growing number are voicing for the health care law weakened the argument, often cited by Republicans, that small businesses had been harmed by it and need a rollback.', 'Business owners with a few dozen or more workers often resent the cost and regulatory burden of complying with the law’s mandates, and many have backed the Republican efforts. For those who employ only themselves, however, some of the features of the Affordable Care Act — like coverage for existing conditions and curbs on prices — opened up coverage unavailable to them before the law.', 'In addition, there is a vocal group of self-employed workers who are, like many people, paying higher premiums and deductibles because of the law. But some of them want lawmakers to adjust the law to address those higher costs, instead of repealing and replacing it entirely.', 'The National Federation of Independent Business, a powerful industry lobbying group that was the plaintiff in the case that went to the Supreme Court, helped lead the small-business effort, years ago, to fight the law. It dislikes the costs that complying with the law impose on businesses, and the mandate that individuals buy insurance.', 'As the Senate took up its overhaul proposals, the trade group pressed hard for a full repeal — and then criticized lawmakers for not getting it done.', '“Small-business owners are deeply disappointed,” Jack Mozloom, a spokesman for the group, said. “The high cost of health care has been the No. 1 concern for small-business owners for more than three decades. Obamacare made that problem worse, driving up costs and shrinking choices. The Senate had a chance to address the problem, and they blew it.”', 'But as overhaul legislation advanced through Congress, many small-business owners became more vocal about their opposition to the changes. Other industry groups, like the Main Street Alliance and the Small Business Majority, championed their cause.', 'Manta, an online small-business community that regularly studies the sentiment of business owners, found that a majority of those it surveyed in January said that they wanted the law repealed during President Trump’s time in office. Asked this month about the Republicans’ Senate bill, far more people said they opposed it than supported it. (A majority of those same respondents said they approved of the job Mr. Trump had done so far as president.)', 'Brent Messenger, the head of community for Fiverr, a marketplace for freelancers, said that members he had spoken with recently lined up about 2-to-1 against a repeal of the Affordable Care Act. Striking down the law, he said, “would be potentially catastrophic for the gig economy.”', 'Small-business owners generally face higher per-person insurance costs for themselves and their employees than large employers, because individuals and smaller groups are inherently more risky to insure — and, therefore, more expensive — than the larger pools that big employers can assemble. The Affordable Care Act tried to address some of those problems by requiring insurers to set level premiums for all individual policyholders by age and by prohibiting insurers from dropping policyholders if they got sick.', 'One in five people who buy coverage through the marketplaces created by the law is a small-business owner, totaling 1.4 million people, according to Treasury Department research. Another significant population relies on government programs like Medicaid, which the health law expanded.', 'Joel Schaubert, 51, a software consultant in Minneapolis, said that before the law, he worried about what would happen if he harmed his left arm, which he broke a decade ago in a biking accident. It became a pre-existing condition, and as he navigated the individual insurance market, the policies he bought explicitly excluded it from coverage, he said. That changed only after the health law took effect.', '“I can finally get insurance that covers my entire body,” Mr. Schaubert said.', 'But to expand coverage and bring in enough healthy customers to keep various insurance pools afloat, the government also forced some trade-offs. To put more people into the individual insurance market, it stopped allowing sole proprietors to join small-group pools and required them to instead buy individual coverage.', 'The intention was to prevent groups from cherry-picking healthy participants, but it had the side effect of significantly increasing costs for some sole proprietors. The rule also forced a number of professional associations to cancel the plans they offered members.', 'Leah Gomberg, 48, a home stager, and her husband, David, 50, a self-employed psychologist in Maplewood, N.J., used to purchase coverage for themselves and their three sons through a broker who bundled their business together with others into a small-group pool. Now, they pay about $1,800 a month, twice their previous premium, for an individual family policy with a narrower network and more out-of-pocket costs than her previous one.', '“It’s just sucking the life out of us financially,” Ms. Gomberg said.', 'For some entrepreneurs, the individual market’s combination of pricey premiums and  high deductibles puts any plan at all out of reach.', 'Julie Petrocelli, 47, enjoyed low-cost employer insurance for most of her career through her job or her partner’s. Newly single, she started a juice business last year near Seattle and went shopping for individual insurance. She was horrified to find that her least expensive option was about $250 a month, with a deductible of several thousand dollars. Facing with the choice between putting money into her health insurance or into her business, she picked the business.', '“As much as I don’t want to be without coverage — it’s a scary thing — I’ve got to support myself,” Ms. Petrocelli said.', 'Both Ms. Gomberg and Ms. Petrocelli said that they broadly supported the Affordable Care Act, but they would like to see its benefits spread around more evenly. They like the safety net it provides but are frustrated at the often high individual costs involved in making the system work.', 'Being forced to buy insurance ideologically irks some business owners, even those too small to be affected by the law’s mandates. Daniel Thompson, 32, runs a bike shop in Bel Air, Md., with eight employees. Mr. Thompson, who describes himself as “a Rand Paul guy,” referring to the Republican senator from Kentucky, said he considered it unconstitutional for the government to force people to purchase a product.', 'He had hoped for a full repeal. Failing that, he hopes lawmakers will put aside their partisan differences and work together on fixes.', '“I’m in the bracket that got hit the hardest: I’m young, relatively healthy, and my employer doesn’t provide health care,” Mr. Thompson said. “I would like to see something, anything, happen to bring down premiums.”', 'Beth Lauren Stebner and Dr. Michael David Cooper are to be married Nov. 5 in Philadelphia. Dr. Joseph Yang, a friend of the groom who became a Universal Life Church for the event, is to officiate at the College of Physicians.', 'Ms. Stebner, 31, is an editorial recruiter for Hearst in New York. She graduated from Miami University in Ohio.', 'She is the daughter of Janice D. Stebner and Donald H. Stebner of Cuyahoga Falls, Ohio. The bride’s father is a computer programmer in Akron, Ohio for SUMMACare. Her mother retired as a math and English teacher at Open Door Christian Schools in Elyria, Ohio.', 'Mr. Cooper, 33, is a psychiatry resident at N.Y.U. He graduated from Purdue and received a medical degree from the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx.', 'He is the son of Rebecca S. Cooper and David E. Cooper of Fort Wayne, Ind. The groom’s mother is a manager in Fort Wayne for Lincoln Financial Group. His father is a psychotherapist in Fort Wayne for Community Health Systems-St. Joseph Hospital.', 'The couple met in October 2010 at the Rally to Restore Sanity and/or Fear on the National Mall in Washington. Ms. Stebner, the on-staff video editor for New York magazine at the time, had traveled to Washington to cover the event, which Mr. Cooper was attending with friends. Ms. Stebner had asked her friend Laurie Kamens to accompany her. She agreed, on the condition that they both “find a cute guy.”', 'When Ms. Stebner first approached Mr. Cooper, however, she had no idea what he looked like: his face was covered in a Richard Nixon mask. He was flanked by two other masked friends. She decided to interview them, asking what brought them to the rally.', '“We’re just here for the Roots,” Mr. Cooper answered dryly, referring to the band scheduled to play and making Ms. Stebner laugh.', '“That line was heavily starred in my reporter’s notebook,” she said.', 'When Mr. Cooper de-masked, she said she realized that a “cute guy” was standing right in front of her. Ms. Stebner gave Mr. Cooper her business card before they parted ways.', 'He promptly lost it. He later returned to the area, strewn with litter, and after a time found it.', 'Two weeks later he sent Ms. Stebner a message on Facebook, asking her out. More dates followed. Two years after meeting in an estimated crowd of more than 200,000, they moved in together.', 'Mr. Cooper proposed three years later in spring 2015. Mr. Cooper and Ms. Stebner moved into an apartment in Brooklyn together and got a mini goldendoodle puppy they named Björn. Wedding planning was relatively uneventful until May, when Ms. Stebner went to the emergency room with extreme stomach pain. The next day, after surgery to remove a large mass from her abdomen, she learned she had ovarian cancer.', '“That Friday, I had felt fine. And that Monday, I was engaged, 30 years old, and a cancer patient,” she said.', 'She was in the hospital for four days. Because she had surgery at the N.Y.U. hospital where Mr. Cooper was a resident, he was able to sneak Björn in for visits. They discussed postponing the wedding.', 'Eventually they decided to keep the date. Ms. Stebner says it gave them something positive to focus on during her long recovery. About three weeks before her wedding, she learned her cancer was in remission.', '“I like to think that we just put the ‘in sickness and in health’ vows ahead of our actual ceremony,” Ms. Stebner said.', 'Mr. Cooper agreed.', '“Going through this whole process, as difficult as it was, really brought us closer together,” he said. “I feel like we can handle anything together.”', 'For the past five years, Oscar Health has sought to portray itself as a new kind of health insurer, taking an approach that set it apart from its more traditional competitors.', 'Now, Oscar plans to work with one of those rivals on a new venture.', 'The start-up announced on Wednesday that it would work with Humana, one of the biggest insurance companies in the United States, on a venture for small-business health insurance in Nashville.', 'The venture is just one partnership in one metropolitan region. But it highlights Oscar’s efforts to expand beyond the individual plans it has sold since its inception into plans for small businesses.', 'Founded in 2012, Oscar pitched itself as an insurer steeped in technology and friendlier to customers. That helped the company raise more than $720 million from investors, including the venture firm of the co-founder Joshua Kushner, the younger brother of Jared Kushner, President Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.', 'Oscar’s pitch has gained converts, allowing the company to expand into several states, including California, New York and Texas. But for much of its existence, it has lost money, including $124.1 million in New York State last year. Its overall individual-plan membership fell to 90,171 as of March 31, from 106,000 in 2016.', '(The company disclosed in May that its overall loss in the first three months of 2017 had narrowed by 47 percent from the same time last year, to $25.8 million.)', 'The company has said it wants to enter the market for employer-provided insurance, which accounts for roughly half of all Americans. Three months ago, it announced the opening of Oscar for Business, starting in New York.', '“The individual market was a good starting point,” Mario Schlosser, Oscar’s chief executive, said in a telephone interview. “But it was clear from the beginning that the majority of insurance in the U.S. is delivered through employers.”', 'Nashville is a new step for Oscar.', 'The germ of the partnership lay in conversations that Humana held over the years with Oscar executives, representatives of each company said in interviews.', 'Several months ago — before Humana’s deal to sell itself to Aetna collapsed amid opposition from government regulators — Bruce D. Broussard, Humana’s chief executive, met with Mr. Schlosser and Joel I. Klein, Oscar’s chief policy and strategy officer, to find ways for the two companies to work together.', '“Humana has been an organization that’s willing to test and learn over the years, and we’re not afraid to partner with companies thinking outside the box,” said Beth Bierbower, the president of the employer group segment at Humana.', 'She added, “It seemed to me that, since I was very focused on small businesses, once I understood that they were really going in that direction, a deeper conversation made sense.”', 'Ms. Bierbower and Mr. Klein, who previously was chancellor of New York City’s public schools and a top lieutenant to Rupert Murdoch, spent months devising what became the Nashville partnership.', '“We’ve found common ground with Humana,” Mr. Schlosser said. Speaking of Humana’s interest in innovations, he added, “We speak the same language in many ways.”', 'Nashville was chosen because of its fast-growing population and its status as a hub for health-care-related technology start-ups, Ms. Bierbower said.', 'Under the terms of the venture, Humana will provide the necessary licenses to operate in the Nashville area, as well as the network of doctors. But businesses will go through Oscar, which will have teams, including nurses, that work with specific customers.', 'Each company owns a 50 percent stake in the partnership.', 'The three executives said the partnership was just that, and not a prelude to a merger. Oscar is focused on continuing to grow elsewhere, including New Jersey, where it is re-entering the insurance market after withdrawing this year, and Cleveland, where it is in a partnership  with the Cleveland Clinic on individual insurance plans.', 'Mr. Schlosser and Mr. Klein expressed confidence that the company could continue to operate despite the turmoil enveloping Republicans’ health care overhaul proposals in Washington.', '“As we move forward, the market will continue to stabilize,” Mr. Klein said.', 'Meanwhile, he added, “we’re a start-up; we’ve got some big investments that we need to make.”', 'WASHINGTON — Republican lawmakers unveiled a sweeping rewrite of the tax code on Thursday, outlining a $1.5 trillion plan that will deliver a significant tax cut for corporations and more modest savings for middle-class families while tilting the United States closer, but not entirely, toward the kind of tax system long championed by businesses.', 'The House plan, released after weeks of internal debate, conflict and delay, immediately ignited a legislative and lobbying fight as business groups, special interests and Democrats began tearing into the text ahead of a Republican sprint to get the legislation passed and to President Trump’s desk by Christmas. Lawmakers appeared unfazed by the blowback and scheduled the first official “markup” of the bill for Monday.', '“With this plan, we are making pro-growth reforms, so that yes, America can compete with the rest of the world,” said Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin.', 'The bill is heavily weighted toward business, which would receive about $1 trillion in net cuts, or two-thirds of the total, according to calculations by the Joint Committee on Taxation. At its center is a proposal to permanently cut the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent — a change that is estimated to reduce federal revenues by $1.5 trillion over the next decade alone.', 'For individuals, the plan establishes three tax brackets — 12, 25 and 35 percent — instead of the seven that exist now and maintains a top rate of 39.6 percent for millionaires. The bill would also eliminate the alternative minimum tax, which is expected to hit 4.5 million families in 2017, and would roughly double the standard deduction for middle-class families. It would not, as many had feared, make any changes to the pretax treatment of 401(k) plans.', 'Americans will still be able to make “both traditional, pretax contributions and ‘Roth’ contributions in the way that works best for them,” Republican lawmakers said in their talking points.', 'But the legislation includes several land mines that could complicate its passage, including limits on the popular mortgage interest deduction and caps on the state and local tax deduction, as well as its overall cost. Several Republicans from the high-tax states of New York and New Jersey said the bill would need to change to gain their support, while powerful trade groups representing the real estate industry and small businesses blasted the bill as ineffective and harmful to Americans.', '“Contrary to their assertions, the Republicans are picking winners and losers,” Jerry Howard, the chief executive of the National Association of Homebuilders, said in an interview. “They are picking rich Americans and corporations over small businesses and the middle class.”', 'Meanwhile, Senate Republicans are working on their own tax bill, and on Thursday, Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, lobbed a grenade into the House plan over its cost.', '“As I have made clear from the beginning of this debate, it is my hope that the final legislation — while allowing for current policy assumptions and reasonable dynamic scoring — will not add to the deficit, sets rates that are permanent in nature and closes a minimum of $4 trillion in loopholes and special interest deductions,” Mr. Corker said.', 'Representative Kevin Brady, Republican of Texas and the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said that the House plan had the “full support” of Mr. Trump and predicted that it would be on the president’s desk this year. Anticipating the resistance from industry groups, Mr. Brady said, “We’re going to prove them wrong once and for all.”', 'Representative Peter Roskam, Republican of Illinois and a member of the Ways and Means Committee, said he was bracing for the lobbyist onslaught but would not be deterred.', '“We’ve just finished the opening ceremonies of the lobbyist Olympics. My phone has all kinds of messages and there are all kinds of criticisms,” he said. “The notion of just defending the status quo is insufferable, and we’re not going to do it.”', 'The bill is estimated to cost $1.5 trillion over a decade, and lawmakers must keep it at that amount if they are to pass it along party lines and avoid a filibuster by Democrats. Lawmakers have been scrambling for days to find revenue to offset tax cuts that will cost trillions of dollars. That has prompted a host of changes on the individual side, including repealing tax breaks for things like medical expenses, moving expenses, student loan interest and adoption, as well as making some business tax breaks temporary.', 'The benefits for individual taxpayers will be mixed and depend largely on where they fall on the income scale, where they live and the types of tax breaks they tend to claim.', 'Those making up to $24,000 will pay no income tax. For married taxpayers filing jointly, earnings up to $90,000 would be taxed in the 12 percent bracket; earnings up to $260,000 would fall in the 25 percent bracket; and earnings up to $1 million would be taxed at the 35 percent rate. For unmarried individuals and those filing separately, the bracket thresholds would be half of these amounts, other than the 35 percent bracket, which would be $200,000 for unmarried individuals.', 'The proposal roughly doubles the standard deduction for middle-class families, expanding it to $24,000 for married couples, from $12,700, and setting it at $12,000 for individuals, from $6,530 today. Republicans also plan to expand the child tax credit to $1,600 from $1,000 and add a $300 credit for each parent and nonchild dependent, such as older family members, though that credit would expire after five years.', 'But it also tightens rules for claiming the child tax credit, a change that would hit immigrant parents whose children were born in the United States. Filers would need to provide a “work-eligible Social Security number” rather than just a taxpayer identification number in order to claim the credit. The left-leaning Center on Budget Policy and Priorities said the bill would roll back eligibility for about three million children in working families, including about 80 percent of whom were born in the United States.', 'The bill includes a host of other changes that will affect taxpayers in different ways. For instance, it repeals certain tax credits, including a 15 percent credit for individuals aged 65 or over or who are retired on disability. Right now, those individuals can claim up to $7,500 for a joint return, $5,000 for a single individual, or $3,750 for a married individual filing a joint return.', 'The House bill would entirely repeal that tax credit. It would also repeal the adoption tax credit, no longer allow deductions for tax preparation and repeal credits for alimony payments. And deductions for moving expenses would no longer be allowed.', 'One of the biggest flash points is a proposed change to the popular mortgage interest deduction. Under the Republican plan, existing homeowners can keep the deduction, but future purchases will be capped at $500,000, down from the current $1 million limit.', 'The National Association of Realtors came out swinging against the bill, suggesting a huge fight awaits over how real estate is treated.', '“Eliminating or nullifying the tax incentives for homeownership puts home values and middle-class homeowners at risk, and from a cursory examination this legislation appears to do just that,” said William E. Brown, the president of the association. “We will have additional details upon a more thorough reading of the bill.”', 'Mr. Howard of the homebuilders group said the bill was a broken promise.', '“It puts such severe limitations on homebuyers’ ability to use the mortgage interest deduction that home values will fall,” he said.', 'Another area of contention is the bill’s treatment of the state and local tax deduction, which is popular among many middle- and upper-middle-class taxpayers in high-cost states like New Jersey, New York and California. The House bill would limit the deduction to just property taxes, rather than state and local income taxes and general sales taxes, and cap the benefit at $10,000.', 'Several Republican lawmakers said they would oppose the bill in its current form, including Representatives Leonard Lance and Frank A. LoBiondo of New Jersey.', 'The proposal will double the estate tax exemption to roughly $11 million, from $5.49 million, meaning families can avoid paying taxes on large inheritance. And it eventually repeals the estate tax altogether, phasing it out entirely in six years.', 'Business groups that include large multinationals praised the bill effusively for lowering corporate rates permanently and sharply, and for overhauling the international tax system.', 'For the first time, the United States is proposing to effectively levy a global minimum tax of 10 percent, which would apply to income that high-profit subsidiaries of American companies earn anywhere in the world. The effort is aimed at preventing companies from shifting profits abroad and grabbing back some of the tax revenue on income earned overseas. Those profits are currently not taxed until they are returned to the United States, giving companies an incentive to keep that money offshore since they are taxed at the current corporate tax rate of 35 percent.', 'The White House has said more than $2.5 trillion in American profits are held offshore.', 'The bill would force companies to pay a one-time 12 percent tax on liquid assets held overseas, like cash. The tax, which is reduced from the current 35 percent tax rate, would be payable over eight years. For illiquid assets, like equipment or property, the tax rate would be 5 percent.', 'It would also force American subsidiaries of foreign-owned companies to pay a 20 percent excise tax on any payments sent back to foreign affiliates.', 'Neil Bradley, the chief policy officer at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, called the bill a “home run” for economic growth and warned other groups against blocking it. “Everyone’s going to look at this and find something they don’t like,” Mr. Bradley said. “So they are going to have to decide? Am I going to help get this done?”', 'Among those less sanguine about the bill are small businesses, which said the bill does not go far enough to help them reduce their tax burden. Republicans stuck to their promise of lowering the tax rate for “pass through” businesses to 25 percent. But to prevent the rate from becoming a loophole for all sorts of individuals, tax writers have created a formula they say will ensure that business owners will pay a higher individual tax rate on income that they receive as wages. The formula would be applied based on the circumstances of the business.', 'That provision is not enough to satisfy the National Federation of Independent Business, which said in a statement it is “unable to support the House tax reform plan in its current form.”', 'Placing even more pressure on lawmakers, the Peter G. Peterson Foundation is planning to spend $6 million on a nationwide ad campaign, including a TV commercial, that warns against a tax plan that adds to the national debt.', 'The message of the campaign is that overhauling the tax code “should grow the economy, not the debt,” said Michael A. Peterson, the president and chief executive of the foundation, which advocates reining in federal budget deficits.']