['WASHINGTON — The North American Free Trade Agreement, long disparaged by President Trump as bad for the United States, was edging closer toward collapse as negotiators gathered for a fourth round of contentious talks here this week.', 'In recent weeks, the Trump administration has sparred with American businesses that support Nafta and has pushed for significant changes that negotiators from Mexico and Canada say are nonstarters. All the while, the president has continued threatening to withdraw the United States from the trade agreement, which he has maligned as the worst in history.', 'As the trade talks began on Wednesday, Mr. Trump, seated in the Oval Office beside Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada, said it was “possible” that the United States would drop out of Nafta.', '“It’s possible we won’t be able to make a deal, and it’s possible that we will,” the president said. “We’ll see if we can do the kind of changes that we need. We have to protect our workers. And in all fairness, the prime minister wants to protect Canada and his people also. So we’ll see what happens with Nafta, but I’ve been opposed to Nafta for a long time, in terms of the fairness of Nafta.”', 'Mr. Trudeau, in comments later at the Canadian Embassy, said he remains optimistic about the potential for a Nafta deal but noted that Canadians must be “ready for anything.”', 'The collapse of the 1994 trade deal would reverberate throughout the global economy, inflicting damage far beyond Mexico, Canada and the United States and affecting industries as varied as manufacturing, agriculture and energy. It would also sow at least short-term chaos for businesses like the auto industry that have arranged their North American supply chains around the deal’s terms.', 'The ripple effects could also impede other aspects of the president’s agenda, for example, by solidifying political opposition among farm state Republicans who support the pact and jeopardizing legislative priorities like tax reform. And it could have far-reaching political effects, including the Mexican general election in July 2018 and Mr. Trump’s own re-election campaign.', 'Business leaders have become spooked by the increasing odds of the trade deal’s demise, and on Monday, more than 310 state and local chambers of commerce sent a letter to the administration urging the United States to remain in Nafta. Speaking in Mexico on Tuesday, the president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, Thomas J. Donohue, said the negotiations had “reached a critical moment. And the chamber has had no choice but ring the alarm bells.”', '“Let me be forceful and direct,” he said. “There are several poison pill proposals still on the table that could doom the entire deal.”', 'The potential demise of the trade deal prompted supportive messages from labor unions, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the United Steelworkers, as well as some Democrats.', '“Any trade proposal that makes multinational corporations nervous is a good sign that it’s moving in the right direction for workers,” said Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio.', 'If the deal does fall apart, the United States, Canada and Mexico would revert to average tariffs that are relatively low — just a few percent in most cases. But several agricultural products would face much higher duties. American farmers would see a 25 percent tariff on shipments of beef, 45 percent on turkey and some dairy products, and 75 percent on chicken, potatoes and high fructose corn syrup sent to Mexico.', 'For months, some of the most powerful business leaders in the country, and the lobbies and political figures that represent them, had hoped that the president’s strong wording was more a negotiating tactic than a real threat and that he would ultimately go along with their agenda of modernization. Nafta is nearly a quarter-century old, and people across the political spectrum say it should be updated for the 21st century while preserving the open trading system that has linked the North American economy.', 'The pact has allowed industries to reorganize their supply chains around the continent to take advantage of the three countries’ differing resources and strengths, lifting the continent’s economies and more than tripling America’s trade with Canada and Mexico since its inception. Economists contend that many workers have benefited from these changes in the form of higher wages and employment, but many workers have lost their jobs as manufacturing plants relocated to Mexico or Canada, making Nafta a target of labor unions, many Democrats and a few industries.', 'But most business leaders had hoped that the president, whose Nafta criticism has been unrelenting, would be content to oversee tweaks to modernize the agreement, and then call it a political transformation.', 'It sometimes looked as if that might be the case. The appointment of Robert Lighthizer as United States trade representative, who pledged in his confirmation hearing to “do no harm” to Nafta, reassured many on Capitol Hill, where Mr. Lighthizer had long served in aide roles. And when the administration released its negotiating goals in July for the deal, they echoed many priorities of previous administrations.', 'But now, eight weeks into trade talks that were originally supposed to conclude by year’s end, the administration continues to push for concessions that the business community warns would essentially undermine the pact, and which few observers believe Canada and Mexico could agree to politically.', '“Everyone knows that much of what is being proposed in key areas are, in effect, non-starters, which begs the question as to what, exactly, the administration is trying to achieve,” Michael Camuñez, a former assistant secretary of commerce under President Barack Obama, wrote in an email. It’s not unreasonable to think that by accommodating the president’s most extreme positions, American negotiators are “simply giving Trump cover to do what he really wants: withdraw from the agreement,” he said.', 'Phil Levy, a trade adviser for the George W. Bush administration, said the president was most likely looking for a pretext to kill Nafta.', '“Find me the last trade agreement that U.S. passed with the chamber in opposition,” Mr. Levy said. “You don’t have a chance. It’s hard enough with the U.S. Chamber in favor.”', 'The most controversial of the administration’s proposals, floated by Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross, would incorporate a sunset clause in the deal, causing Nafta to automatically expire unless all three countries voted periodically to continue it. That provision has drawn swift condemnation from the chamber and other industry groups like the National Association of Manufacturers, which say that it would instill so much uncertainty in the future of Nafta that it would basically nullify the trade agreement.', 'Another contentious push by the United States centers on changing Nafta’s rules governing how much of a product needs to be made in North America in order to enjoy tariff-free trade between the countries. The United States is pushing for higher levels, including a requirement to make 85 percent of the value of automobiles and auto parts in North America, up from 62.5 percent currently, and an additional requirement for 50 percent of the value to come from the United States.', 'That has pitted some of the world’s biggest auto companies against the Trump administration. Industry representatives say such high and complex barriers could deter companies from manufacturing in the United States altogether.', 'The administration has also proposed limits on the number of federal government contracts that Mexican and Canadian companies can win, as well as significant changes to how disputes are resolved under Nafta.', 'Business groups say they are firmly opposed to an American push to curtail a provision called investor-state dispute settlement, which allows companies to sue Canada, Mexico and the United States for unfair treatment under Nafta. Meanwhile, Canada has said that it will not consider dispensing with another provision, Nafta’s Chapter 19, which allows countries to challenge each other’s anti-dumping and countervailing duty decisions before an independent panel.', 'In his remarks Tuesday, Mr. Donohue called the administration’s proposed changes to these provisions “unnecessary and unacceptable.”', 'Mr. Donohue’s remarks followed a sharp exchange of words between the Chamber of Commerce, the country’s most powerful business lobby, and the Trump administration on Friday.', 'John Murphy, senior vice president of international policy for the chamber, said the administration’s proposals had “no identifiable constituency backing them” and had sparked “a remarkable degree of unity in their rejection.” He added that business leaders had perhaps never been at odds with an administration over a trade negotiation on so many fronts.', 'Hours later, the administration fired back.', '“The president has been clear that Nafta has been a disaster for many Americans, and achieving his objectives requires substantial change,” said Emily Davis, a spokeswoman for the trade representative. “These changes of course will be opposed by entrenched Washington lobbyists and trade associations. We have always understood that draining the swamp would be controversial in Washington.”', 'Mr. Trump is known for taking a tough negotiating stance, and analysts said the administration might view its ambitious opening requests as a way to gain more leverage in the Nafta negotiations.', 'But Mr. Murphy and others in the business community cautioned that such an approach would probably be ill-fated. In both Canada and Mexico, Mr. Trump is unpopular, and caving to his demands could have devastating consequences for local politicians. Mexican government officials have repeatedly said they would not negotiate with a gun to the head.', '“There’s an old adage in negotiations, never take a hostage you wouldn’t shoot,” Mr. Murphy said.', 'TOKYO — Toshiba Corporation, the struggling Japanese conglomerate, will once again try to sell its immensely valuable microchip business to a group of American and Japanese buyers.', 'Better offers would be welcomed, too.', 'Toshiba said on Wednesday that it had agreed to negotiate with a group led by Bain Capital, the American investment firm, that also includes two organizations controlled by the Japanese government. They will seek to strike a deal over Toshiba’s chip business, the world’s second-largest manufacturer of flash memory chips, which are used to store data in millions of smartphones and other digital devices.', 'A deal, which Toshiba hopes to complete by this month, is widely expected to value the chip business at more than $20 billion — a potential shot in the arm for a company struggling with the aftermath of a disastrous bet on building nuclear power plants.', 'But Toshiba said the negotiations would not be exclusive. That could leave an opening for new bids from Western Digital, another potential American suitor, and Foxconn, an electronics manufacturer based in Taiwan that has extensive operations in mainland China.', 'Toshiba is racing to shore up its finances. Once a symbol of Japan’s technical prowess and postwar rise, Toshiba said this year that it would have trouble staying in business because of losses from Westinghouse Electric, its nuclear power business in the United States, which was slammed with cost overruns and filed for bankruptcy court protection in March.', 'Toshiba’s banks are keeping the company afloat, but if it does not secure a significant infusion of new capital by March, it could be expelled from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. That would essentially cut it off from a broad swath of public investors.', 'The chip negotiations have been complicated, however.', 'Western Digital shares ownership with Toshiba of a flash memory production operation in Japan and argues that the Japanese company cannot sell the chip business to an outside party without its approval. Western Digital immediately objected to Toshiba’s decision on Wednesday to name the Bain group its favored bidder.', '“We are disappointed that Toshiba would take this action,” Western Digital said in a statement. “Our goal has been — and remains — to reach a mutually beneficial outcome that satisfies the needs of Toshiba and its stakeholders.”', 'Toshiba had already picked the Bain-led group once before, in June. But the choice provoked a furious response from Western Digital. Legal pressure from the American company prompted Toshiba to back away from its previous commitment to Bain and reopen talks with other potential bidders.', 'Foxconn, which makes iPhone and other devices and hardware that carry the brand names of other electronics heavyweights, has publicly pushed to be the buyer. But its heavy manufacturing footprint in mainland China has promoted fears in Japan that the business could eventually leave the country and end up on Chinese soil.', 'Toshiba’s microchip unit is second only to Samsung Electronics of South Korea in producing so-called NAND flash memory chips. The business has been profitable for Toshiba, which pioneered NAND technology.', 'The winning bidder would have to show that it could nurture the microchip business while offering enough cash now to return Toshiba “to positive equity,” Yasuo Naruke, senior executive vice president at Toshiba, said in a statement.', 'Western Digital suggested it would continue to press Toshiba in the courts — the companies have filed dueling lawsuits — and at an arbitration tribunal operated by the International Chamber of Commerce, which is holding hearings on the sale at Western Digital’s request.', '“We remain confident in our ability to protect our J.V. interests and consent rights,” Western Digital said, referring to the companies’ Japanese joint venture.', 'It’s official: Returns for college and university endowments for the 2017 fiscal year are in, and while they averaged a respectable 12.2 percent for the year, over the last decade they have underperformed funds offering a simple 60-40 or 70-30 stock-fixed income allocation.', 'With their average returns dragged down by the weak performance of hedge funds, venture capital and private equity, you would think endowments would be fleeing these so-called alternative investments, which are costly and mostly illiquid, as some large pension funds have done.', 'On the contrary, endowments are holding firm, or even adding to these holdings. Last year, alternative investments accounted for an average of 52 percent of endowment assets — over 60 percent in the largest endowments — the same percentage as two years ago, according to the annual Nacubo-Commonfund study of endowments.', 'Yet over the last 10 years, the average endowment earned a 4.6 percent annualized return, lower than the 5.3 percent return for a low-cost 60-40 stock-bond index fund portfolio and 5.4 percent for a 70-30 mix.', 'For endowments greater than $1 billion, the average return was 5 percent. Had they realized that extra three-tenths of a percent, or 30 basis points, that the 60-40 portfolio delivered, they’d have on average an additional $47 million in their endowments.', 'The trend is likely to be even more pronounced next year, when the financial crisis results of the 2009 fiscal year drop out of the 10-year calculations. That’s because alternatives did provide something of a buffer during that severe bear market, but have mostly underperformed since.', 'Five-year averages suggest the magnitude of the gap: The average endowment had annualized five-year returns of 5.9 percent. A 60-40 mix returned 8.2 percent, and a 70-30 mix returned 9.2.', '“That’s tens of millions of dollars that could have otherwise funded scholarships, built a new museum wing or bolster the corpus of the endowment to help future generations,” said Christopher Philips, head of Vanguard Institutional Advisory Services. (He’s not a disinterested observer: Vanguard is a major purveyor of — and advocate for — low-cost index and mutual funds.)', '“It’s frustrating because these institutions do so much good work, and most of them could be doing so much better,” Mr. Philips said.', 'Even the Ivy League schools, with combined endowments of more than $125 billion, have fallen prey to the trend. As a group, they, too, have underperformed simple index strategies over 10 years, and their huge portfolios of alternative assets “appeared to deliver no meaningful benefits in 2017,” according to a study by Markov Processes International, a quantitative research firm that did an in-depth study of the performance of Ivy League endowments.', 'Last year Harvard University shocked the investment world when it announced a $1.1 billion write-down of its natural resources portfolio, much of it in alternative investments. Harvard’s $37.1 billion endowment, the country’s largest, gained only 8.1 percent last year, placing it last among Ivy League schools. Harvard said it was in the process of restructuring its illiquid asset portfolio, but hasn’t abandoned alternatives.', 'Even Yale University, which pioneered the so-called Yale Model now slavishly followed by many other endowments, and has a target allocation of nearly 90 percent of its assets in alternative assets, has seen its outperformance shrink in recent years. Yale delivered an 11.3 percent return for 2017, but that was below the average return for all endowments of 12.2 percent, according to the study by Nacubo, the National Association of College and University Business Officers.', 'Yale still boasts a stellar 20-year annualized return of 12.1 percent, far above the endowment 20-year average of 7.4 percent, according to the university. But its 10-year annualized return has slipped to just 6.6 percent. (That still puts it in the top 5 percent of all endowment returns.) Still, Yale told me that its chief investment officer, David Swensen, is bullish on the school’s portfolio relative to stocks and bonds for the next 10 years.', 'The endowments’ persistent devotion to high-cost alternative assets in the face of such poor performance, now documented across a decade-long span, baffles many. “We keep scratching our heads,” Mr. Philips of Vanguard said.', '“Among the schools we survey, there’s a strong belief in the endowment model pioneered 30 years or so ago by Yale and a few other schools,” said Kenneth E. Redd, senior director of research and policy analysis for Nacubo. “We’re not seeing any changes in portfolio alignment or investment philosophy even though the indexes have clearly outperformed both managed funds and hedge funds. There’s still this belief that alternatives will provide some measure of outperformance.”', 'He noted that endowments of more than $1 billion, which tend to have high allocations to alternatives, did on average outperform the 60-40 mix (but not the 70-30 mix) over the most recent five-year period.', 'Jeff Schwartz, Markov’s president, agreed. “We’re talking about true believers in the value of alternatives,” he said. Many endowment managers, he added, “aren’t completely objective.”', '“They’ve seen it work in the past, sometimes in a spectacular way,” he continued. “It’s hard to take an embedded belief system like that and say, just because we’ve had an outstanding bull market, that you should move to 60-40. That’s a tall order.”', 'Given the need to cover increased costs, not to mention the recent tax legislation that seeks to tax the wealthiest endowments, asset managers at colleges are under increasing pressure to generate higher returns, even as lofty stock valuations and rising interest rates “suggest it will be hard to get 7.5 percent with a traditional asset mix going forward,” Mr. Philips said.', '“So there’s a strong inclination to turn to something that promises higher returns,” he said, even if they haven’t delivered in the recent past.', 'He also pointed to the “massive marketing machine in the alternative space,” which is “causing investment managers to turn a blind eye to what’s really happening in financial markets.”', 'Universities depend heavily on draws from their endowments — typically 5 percent or more per year — to meet spending needs, and are still haunted by memories of the financial crisis. This month’s stock market volatility was a painful reminder.', 'So the promise of alternative investments to mitigate risk and protect against market downturns has been powerful, even if they haven’t delivered.', 'But with long-term — even infinite — time horizons, university endowments should be able to withstand market volatility.', '“We’re aware of the need to support current spending,” Mr. Philips said, “but if growing the corpus to support future spending is a primary objective, there should be more traditional equity exposure, not less. Adding nontraditional assets would be O.K. if they were compensating for illiquidity and higher risk, but they’re not.”', 'Issues related to sexual harassment continued to plague 21st Century Fox as its Fox Business Network subsidiary confirmed on Thursday that it had suspended a longtime anchor, Charles Payne, pending an investigation into his conduct.', 'The development came exactly a year after a sexual harassment scandal at Fox News first burst into public view with a lawsuit against Roger E. Ailes, the network’s former chairman. As claims of widespread harassment continued to surface, 21st Century Fox has tried to clean house, ousting Mr. Ailes, the former star Bill O’Reilly and several other employees.', 'The suspension of Mr. Payne came after The National Enquirer published an article on Wednesday in which he acknowledged and apologized for an extramarital affair with a former CNN and Fox News contributor. That woman made claims of misconduct against Mr. Payne to lawyers for Fox, according to a person briefed on the matter.', '“We take issues of this nature extremely seriously and have a zero-tolerance policy for any professional misconduct,” a spokeswoman for Fox Business said in a statement. “This matter is being thoroughly investigated and we are taking all of the appropriate steps to reach a resolution in a timely manner.”', 'Mr. Payne could not immediately be reached for comment. A lawyer for Mr. Payne, Neal Korval, did not respond to requests for comment but told The Los Angeles Times that his client denied the allegations.', 'The Los Angeles Times first reported that Mr. Payne had been suspended after the claims of misconduct were made.', 'Fox Business announced last month that it had renewed Mr. Payne’s contract with the network in a multiyear deal. Mr. Payne, who joined the network as a contributor at its start in 2007, has hosted the “Making Money” program at 6 p.m. since 2014. The network said that a rotating group of substitutes would fill in for him during his suspension.', 'The Popcast is hosted by Jon Caramanica, a pop music critic for The New York Times. It covers the latest in pop music criticism, trends and news. ', 'Earlier this year, the streaming service SoundCloud was in dire financial straits, so much so that reports of its imminent demise began to circulate throughout the media, and Chance the Rapper, a fan of the service, announced that he was at work on a way to save the struggling company.', 'But SoundCloud isn’t just a music delivery service; it’s also a place where musical communities congregate and, in the case of what’s come to be known as SoundCloud rap, can grow into a global force. That opens up the question of what is lost when the work of an individual creator is placed in the clutches of a corporation, and what happens when the corporation doesn’t have the capacity, or the inclination, to continue to archive and promote that work. And that situation is amplified when the creators come from vulnerable communities.', 'To discuss the tension between the world of tech and the world of culture, and also what responsibilities tech companies might have toward its creator communities, Mr. Caramanica is joined on this week’s Popcast by Jenna Wortham, a staff writer at The New York Times magazine and co-host of the Still Processing podcast, who recently wrote about the hole that might be left behind were SoundCloud to disappear.', 'Email your questions, thoughts and ideas about what’s happening in pop music to popcast@nytimes.com.', 'Corporate travel managers have long had their hands full dealing with political unrest, terrorism and severe weather around the world. But now, they are contending with new complications — issues like security at border crossings and the legalities of data searches of electronic devices at airports.', 'They are holding conferences and seminars, like the Global Travel Risk Summit on Tuesday in New York, to discuss the new concerns about global travel.', '“In the last six months, it’s gone from a simmer to a boil,” said Evan Konwiser, a vice president at American Express Global Business Travel, who moderated a session at a recent Association of Corporate Travel Executives conference in New York on how to support and protect business travelers.', 'What, he asked the group, are travel managers at companies doing to adapt their programs? “Are they doing it quickly enough? Smart enough?” he asked.', 'One panelist, Julia Fidler, who manages travel for Microsoft, said, “We’re definitely seeing more requests from travelers who ask, ‘Tell me what to do; who do I go to to ask?’”', 'She added, “They still want to talk to somebody, know what number to dial, and if there will be somebody there to assist them.”', 'A recent  study by the association on how current geopolitical issues are affecting travel found that of the 239 corporate travel managers surveyed, 56 percent said they had seen an increase in reports of heightened personal safety concerns in late 2016 and early this year. And 54 percent said travelers had expressed new or growing concerns about how possible changes in visa requirements and immigration policies could affect travel to and from the United States.', '“The pace of change is faster now than ever before and reaching to more regions not traditionally considered high risk,” Greeley Koch, executive director at the Association of Corporate Travel Executives, said in an interview. “And we are starting to see the direct impact on the security and well-being of the traveler.” His group worked with American Express Global Business Travel on the survey.', 'Mr. Koch said more companies were creating policies or strengthening existing ones to clarify what employees can and cannot do and to better assist them when travel disruptions occur. The survey indicated that 47 percent of companies had or planned to introduce training to address safety concerns in the next one to two years; 40 percent were discussing the option.', 'Stephen Barth, a lawyer and professor of hospitality law at the University of Houston, said difficulties often arose from incidents abroad because the legal responsibilities were not clear, even to experts. Workers’ compensation laws in the United States do not always protect employees once they leave the country, unlike in Britain, where the Corporate Manslaughter Act “clarifies the responsibility of employers if an employee is put in harm’s way,” he said.', 'At a recent Global Travel Risk Summit in Chicago, a series of programs were aimed at helping organizations develop safe travel policies. In one, teams of travel managers played out dealing with hypothetical disruptions, like the right time to evacuate during a tsunami, the legal ramifications when an employee becomes paralyzed in a serious crash while using a shared car service or what to do if an employee is kidnapped.', 'Mr. Barth is the founder of HospitalityLawyer.com, which provides legal, safety and security resources for the industry and sponsored the meeting with the BTN Group, a business travel research firm. He said many travelers thought risks involved only extreme situations and did not realize that everyday occurrences could be just as deadly. After a traveler has flown all night with little or no sleep, having to drive on a different side of the street than in the home country “is very high risk,” he said.', 'Many problems can be prevented or managed with minor precautions, like learning about a foreign country in advance and obtaining travel insurance coverage.', 'There has been a steady increase since 2012 in the number of Americans buying insurance for international trips, for emergency medical care, medical evacuation and repatriation in the case of a political event or act of God, according to the travel insurance comparison website Squaremouth. But many still do not realize the need, experts say.', '“It’s a misconception that credit cards will cover” most medical needs abroad, said Chris Carnicelli, chief executive of Generali Global Assistance. For many travelers, he added, buying supplemental coverage has “not been top of mind.”', 'The industry trend, Mr. Carnicelli said, is to make policies easier to understand and provide coverage “more tailored toward individual travel needs.” Identify theft protection, for example, is increasingly important in some countries.', 'Dale Buckner, president and chief executive of Global Guardian, a travel risk management company, said that to deal with cybersecurity effectively, “you have to create a defense in depth.” Many organizations still allow employees to use Wi-Fi in hotels and other public places.', '“Fake accounts are so widespread, it’s an industry,” he said. “The world has changed.”', 'Nearly a third of travel managers in the corporate travel association survey reported increased concern about data privacy, but few corporations were addressing it with policies. Only 6 percent did not permit the use of public Wi-Fi with business devices.', '“We have had to up our game,” said Dennis J. Garritan, co-managing partner of the private equity firm Palmer Hill Capital. “The old rules proved insufficient.”', 'He noted that travel to emerging markets was more important as business had become increasingly competitive. Widespread security issues also mean that clients need to be reassured, he said. Sometimes, using a secure line for phone conversations is enough, Mr. Garritan said, but personal trips are increasingly necessary.', 'He and colleagues have strategies to keep themselves — and their data — safe on high-risk business trips: no mobile phones, laptops or tablets (disposable phones are used for personal conversations); no charging of devices at airports or hotels; no use of open Wi-Fi, especially in China; required annual travel safety training; changing of all business and personal passwords after travel; wiping clean all borrowed or rented local devices used on trips and more robust travel insurance.', 'But even comprehensive policies have limits. “We have this delusion that anywhere in the world, emergency care is available when you need it,” said Dr. Teri Reynolds, who oversees emergency, trauma and acute care for the World Health Organization. “It’s a mistake. Many countries in many regions do not have basic emergency services available.”', 'Even if a visitor is airlifted out, initial care is local and the first few hours are critical, Dr. Reynolds said. “Visitors are at the same risk as residents. No matter how good your insurance, you can’t buy your way out.”', 'But there are initiatives to upgrade services, like the move to create a universal emergency response telephone number. Currently, more than 100 numbers are in use worldwide, and about a third of the world’s countries have no number, said Dr. Etienne Krug, director of the department for management of noncommunicable diseases, disability, violence and injury prevention at the W.H.O.', 'The W.H.O. is working to improve emergency care around the world. Much can be done with fewer resources, Dr. Krug said, “like better personnel training and simply equipped ambulances.”', 'An often-overlooked resource, safety experts said, is the State Department, which maintains lists of insurance providers for overseas coverage and suggests actions that travelers can take  during crises abroad. Its expanded use of social media enables quicker and greater outreach. The Smart Traveler Enrollment Program provides real-time alerts and safety information during emergencies like civil unrest or disease outbreaks, so the local United States Embassy can locate and assist citizens.', 'Dr. Garritan of Palmer Hill Capital said he and colleagues enrolled in the smart traveler program because they do not take GPS-enabled devices on high-risk business trips. “It is always reassuring,” he said, for the State Department to “know where you are, when you will be there and when you’re scheduled to come back.”', 'R. J. Barrett is only 17 years old, but he is already a world traveler.', 'Raised in suburban Toronto, he plays basketball for a high school in Montverde, Fla. Last summer, he led Canada to the gold medal in the under-19 world championship in Egypt, and next month, he and his teammates at Montverde Academy, which has one of the nation’s top basketball programs, will travel to Beijing for a high-profile international tournament.', 'But before they go, Montverde Coach Kevin Boyle plans to have a long, serious talk with everyone. And after the recent incident in which three U.C.L.A. basketball players were detained in China for a week, accused of shoplifting and then freed only after the intervention of President Trump, Boyle expects to have his players’ full attention.', '“It’s definitely going to be a point that we’re going to bring up,” Boyle said in a telephone interview this week. “It’s a different culture and there are expectations of your family and the school, and then, furthermore, you’re in a Communist country. If you do something dumb, you’re not in the United States.”', 'He added, “It’s not the American justice system, so it’s definitely going to be something that you want to point to that this is not a joke, and don’t think you can steal a pack of gum.”', 'In a reflection both of basketball’s increased appeal to China and the way top-tier high school basketball has become big business, Montverde Academy will be joined in Beijing by two other American high school teams: Providence Day School of Charlotte, N.C., and Chaminade College Prep of Canoga Park, Calif. The teams will play in a round-robin format against one another and six Chinese teams from Dec. 6 to 9 at various sites.', 'Montverde’s presence in China is only partly about basketball, though. Like U.C.L.A. and other colleges that have sent teams abroad, Montverde is using the trip to sell itself. A private school housed on a lush campus just west of Orlando, Montverde has an extensive international presence in its corridors, including more than 60 students from China. And like the American college programs that have visited China, or plan to, it hopes to attract even more.', 'Montverde knows its sports teams are a powerful calling card. Boyle’s nationally ranked basketball team includes a Chinese power forward, Kevin Zhang, as well as players from Canada, Russia, Serbia and France. International students also dot the rosters of teams in a handful of other sports at the school.', 'Montverde has a sister campus in Shanghai.', '“We would love to be able to show what Montverde is to more Chinese students that have interest in going to school in the United States,” Boyle said. “So it’s also a way for us to attract kids that are not just basketball players.”', 'As part of the trip, the American and Chinese coaches will trade teaching techniques, and the American teams will take in cultural events and visit historic sites. Everyone involved is making every effort to ensure that the trip goes better than U.C.L.A.’s recent visit did.', 'The three U.C.L.A. players — LiAngelo Ball, Jalen Hill and Cody Riley — were detained by the Chinese police after they were accused of shoplifting items from several high-end stores during a trip to Hangzhou. Ball, Hill and Riley were arrested Nov. 8 and remained confined in their hotel until Nov. 14, several days after their teammates and coaches flew home after a win over Georgia Tech in which the three accused did not play.', 'On Wednesday, after President Trump’s personal appeal to China’s president, Xi Jinping, led to the players’ release and return to California, the players read prepared statements of contrition. U.C.L.A. has suspended them indefinitely.', 'Like many others, Barrett, a talented 6-foot-6 wing player who recently committed to Duke and is projected as a potential No. 1 pick in the 2019 N.B.A. draft, followed developments in the case.', '“I mean that’s crazy,” Barrett said of the U.C.L.A. players’ ordeal. “It’s definitely a warning sign.”', 'But for the coaches and tournament organizers, it was something else: a reminder that taking any group of teenagers abroad, even talented ones with experience in the public eye, can be much more than a simple tourist adventure.', 'Brian Field, the coach at Providence Day, said his school had plans for a meeting with the players, including the Kansas signee Devon Dotson, “about different customs and ways of life” in China. He said he would hold another one on Nov. 27, shortly before they depart.', '“From where we’re sitting,” he said of the U.C.L.A. incident, “it’s probably a good thing just to help our guys be more aware of it and maybe help them to understand — not that any of them would go over there and do that — that we need to be aware of our situation when we’re over there.”', 'Shane Duffy, chief executive of the North American arm of Camsing Global Entertainment, the company organizing the tournament, said he was in China when the U.C.L.A. news broke. That incident, he said, means the visiting high school teams can expect a higher level of scrutiny when they arrive next month.', '“We’ve always looked at this as a friendship opportunity to say, ‘Look, basketball and sports are something that speak to everybody in the world,’ ” said Duffy, a former executive in the N.B.A.’s Los Angeles office. But now, he added, “we shine obviously a brighter light on that to say: ‘Look, this is real. The government’s involved, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Sports, everybody is looking at this event and taking notice, so you guys represent more than just your high school. You represent the country.”', 'Boyle, who has been to China several times, including with Montverde in 2012, said he did not expect any problems on a trip that will also take his team to a tournament in Hawaii. But he still planned to warn his players to heed his instructions by reminding them that the U.C.L.A. players surely received similar ones before they left, “and people didn’t listen.”', 'Barrett, the veteran of overseas travel, expects another smooth ride.', '“We’re there to play basketball,” he said, “so that’s what we’re going to be focused on.”']