Madison Avenue is still the heart of the advertising business. But on the first day of Advertising Week, a top industry convention in Manhattan, it was clear how much influence resides in Silicon Valley.

Facebook and Google, two digital advertising powerhouses, took the stage to introduce services meant to lure an even bigger portion of digital marketing dollars.

Facebook introduced a tool that allows advertisers to buy video ads using a ratings metric similar to one used for buying television commercials. The goal is to make it easier for advertisers to plan and buy ad campaigns across television and Facebook. The combined performance of the television and Facebook ads will be measured by Nielsen Digital Ad Ratings from Nielsen, the research company.

“It’s essentially giving marketers the ability to buy Facebook in the same way they bought TV,” Carolyn Everson, vice president for global marketing solutions at Facebook, said at a presentation. “We believe Facebook and TV can be very complementary.”

With the new tool, Facebook is aggressively pursuing television advertisers, many of whom are increasingly seeking ways to reach consumers on mobile devices. According to Nielsen, 88 percent of tablet owners and 86 percent of smartphone owners use devices while watching television.

Facebook also announced it was introducing mobile polling to let advertisers assess the effectiveness of their campaigns on mobile devices.

During a presentation on Monday, Google announced a product that will let marketers target ad campaigns to consumers using their email addresses. The program, called Customer Match, lets companies upload a list of customers’ email addresses gleaned, for example, from its loyalty membership program. The company can show specific ads to these customers when they are signed into Google.

“The idea is that you combine the pinpoint intent of something like search with information that you have about your customers,” said Sridhar Ramaswamy, senior vice president for advertising and commerce at Google. The product will let advertisers show customers ad campaigns if they have not recently shopped for the company’s products.

Facebook and Google are behemoths in online advertising. In the United States, Facebook is projected to have $7.7 billion in total digital ad revenue in 2015, and Google is projected to have $23.3 billion, according to the research company eMarketer.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• The French chef Jérôme Brochot, above, is giving back his Michelin star — because he can’t afford it and neither can his declining old mining town in Burgundy.

It is a drastic step that says everything about the crushing reality of “the other France” — the provinces where many old jobs have gone and more storefronts are vacant.

In 2017, France embraced a new president, grappled with sexual harassment and achieved the distinction of having the most expensive home in the world. Our Paris bureau chief takes stock of a tumultuous year.

_____

• The U.S. Department of Homeland Security is increasingly going global: It now has an estimated 2,000 employees deployed to more than 70 countries.

The expansion has created tensions with some European countries who say the U.S. is trying to export its immigration laws to their territory, but other allies have welcomed the assistance in curbing terrorist attacks, drug shipments and human trafficking.

(Above, U.S. agents assisting in the breakup of a Nigerian criminal ring in South Africa.)

_____

• The Egyptian authorities hanged 15 men for a 2013 attack in the Sinai Peninsula.

Rights activists and Islamists said that the latest mass execution could drive more young Egyptians into the arms of the Islamic State.

Despite the military’s scorched-earth approach to militants in Sinai — including summary executions and the destruction of whole villages — the insurgency there has grown since 2013.

_____

• The largely peaceful voting in Liberia’s presidential runoff was an accomplishment given that the West African country has not witnessed a peaceful transition of power since 1944.

Voters are choosing between a soccer star, George Weah, and Vice President Joseph Boakai. An outcome is expected this week.

_____

• Peru’s former president Alberto Fujimori, after his release from prison on a medical pardon, asked for forgiveness for the wrongs committed during his rule in the 1990s.

The pardon was seen by some as a political reward to Mr. Fujimori’s son, whose faction of lawmakers abstained in a vote to impeach the current president.

Separately in Peru, our journalists traveled to a remote outpost to meet the last member of a hunter-gatherer tribe. (As the last native speaker of their language, he hasn’t had a conversation in it since 1999, but he still dreams in it.)

_____

• Christmas might be over, but don’t throw away the tree!

That’s the message from environmental advocates, who recommend looking up local programs to make sure your tree stays out of a landfill.

There are many uses for old trees: They can be made into mulch, turned into wood chips and, in New York, are used to reinforce sand dunes on beaches.

• As a new generation of executive leaders are speaking out about moral and political issues in the Trump era, business schools are revising their syllabuses.

• Apple, Google and Microsoft are accelerating their efforts to remake health care with new tracking apps, sensors and other tools.

• In China, microlenders are using artificial intelligence and smartphone data — like how fast prospective borrowers type on their devices — to determine who will pay them back.

• Tackling traffic congestion: New York City is considering a new fee on riders of for-hire vehicles in Manhattan to raise money to help fix public transport.

•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• India is “sitting on a volcano” of diabetes. A father’s effort to ban junk food sales in and near schools aims to change what children eat. [The New York Times]

• The Kremlin is clearly afraid of Aleksei Navalny, the Russian anticorruption activist, but it is unclear exactly what it fears, our correspondent writes. [The New York Times]

• Ukraine’s military and Russian-backed separatists are expected today to conduct the first major prisoner exchange in more than a year. [RFE/RL]

• In Romania, the governing Social Democrats have revived efforts to decriminalize some corruption offenses amid a series of measures that critics say undermine the rule of law. [Reuters]

• Chess diplomacy: Saudi Arabia blocked Israeli players from participating in the world championship in Riyadh. [The New York Times]

• New York’s attorney general, Eric Schneiderman, has taken 100 actions against the White House and congressional Republicans so far, over issues like birth control, environmental rules and the travel ban. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Got a new iPhone X? Here are 11 gestures that will help you use it.

• A vacation in Mexico doesn’t have to come with a high price tag. Here’s how to travel there on a budget.

• Recipe of the day: For dinner, consider an American mash-up of Italian and Spanish cooking: arroz con pollo risotto.

• Scientists are designing artisanal custom proteins not found in nature. One team has built proteins to help fight flu viruses and break down gluten in food.

• Rock has become an increasingly aging genre. Here’s the story of a devotee who has documented the staggering number of musicians who have recently gone to the great gig in the sky.

• Simonetta Puccini, who worked to foster the legacy of the Italian composer Giacomo Puccini, died at 89.

• “The Post,” the newspaper drama, revolves around the Pentagon Papers and other real-life events. But how much is real? We sort fact from fiction.

• English soccer’s traditional Boxing Day schedule overflowed with goals and gripes.

• From maximalist pajamas to subversive Swedish men’s wear, here are nine fashion brands our editors discovered this year.

With a Willy Wonka-like skill for inventing flavors, the pair behind the ice cream chain Baskin-Robbins strived to make America’s tastes more adventurous.

The partnership between Burton (Butch) Baskin and Irvine Robbins, who were brothers-in-law, was cut short by Mr. Baskin’s death at 54 on Christmas Eve in 1967.

But by then, as Mr. Robbins later described in a Times interview, the duo had already started down the path of the “magic of the unusual.”

With origins starting in California in 1945, the chain later introduced 31 flavors (one for every day of the month). The original list shows the pair’s imaginative flair: vanilla burnt almond, egg nog, peppermint fudge ribbon.

Over the years, a “Beatle Nut” flavor was developed for the Fab Four’s debut on American TV, a “Lunar Cheesecake” in honor of the 1960s NASA space missions and more than 1,300 other combinations.

These experiments didn’t always work out. A 1971 review in The Times called caramel rocky road “as dismal a venture as it sounds.”

Still, Mr. Robbins noted in 1976 that, with increasingly bold tastes, Americans were “not embarrassed to ask for some of these wild flavors.”

But even now, with the chain’s history of wacky combinations and thousands of locations around the world, the five best sellers are relatively plain: vanilla, chocolate, chocolate chip, mint chocolate chip and pralines ’n cream.

Anna Schaverien contributed reporting.

_____

This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.

You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said in an interview with The New York Times on Thursday that he wanted the social network to focus on “meaningful interaction.” But his idea of what that phrase means is likely to differ from that of news industry executives and editors — and therein lies a conflict.

Media companies are bracing for the changes coming to Facebook’s News Feed — the column that appears when the site or app is opened — that will favor posts by friends over material from news organizations and other businesses.

“Nobody knows exactly what impact it’ll have, but in a lot of ways, it looks like the end of the social news era,” Jacob Weisberg, the chairman and editor in chief of the Slate Group, said on Friday. “Everybody’s Facebook traffic has been declining all year, so they’ve been de-emphasizing news. But for them to make such a fundamental change in the platform — I don’t think people were really anticipating it.”

Although Facebook users craved conversation and journalists gave them things to talk about, the relationship between the platform and media outlets was imperfect from the start.

Facebook became a news powerhouse with reluctance, and journalism executives allied themselves with it mostly out of necessity, given the two billion Facebook users who were often a screen-tap away from an article or video.

Over the years, as Facebook and media companies entangled themselves with each other, users’ feeds that had once been filled with chatter about graduations, changing relationship statuses and other subjects belonging to the private sphere morphed into digital spaces rife with public matters — news! — and the endless and endlessly contentious comment threads that went with them.

The uncle you once looked up to, it turned out, had a habit of sharing rude memes that you did not want to see, much less Like.

That led to a problem for Facebook, which needs its users to linger, so that it can deliver more highly targeted ads — that’s how the company made a net profit of $10.2 billion in 2016.

Facebook says its changes will improve the “well-being” of its users. In an effort to usher in this new mood of online pleasantness, its product teams will drop the former goal of helping people find “relevant content” as they test the “meaningful interactions” thesis.

The shift in strategy comes, not coincidentally, after a year in which Facebook came under governmental scrutiny for its role in spreading misinformation and hate speech. Mr. Zuckerberg gave his interview to The Times as his company was preparing for a Jan. 17 hearing, the second Capitol Hill inquiry into the online spread of extremist propaganda. During hearings last fall, Facebook told Congress that agents working for a Kremlin-linked company had disseminated content that reached an estimated 126 million users in the United States in 2016.

As a result of Facebook’s attempt to distance itself from an overheated news cycle and make a return to its friends-and-family roots, publishers who depended on it for traffic are likely to find themselves in trouble.

News outlets that have built a strong bond with readers and viewers through other means will be watching closely, to see whether the size of their audiences — and corresponding advertising dollars — will shrink in the coming months.

“Changing the terms rapidly is really bringing into focus just how powerful the platforms have become and how the infrastructure is a very difficult place for publishers to operate and navigate,” John Ridding, the chief executive of The Financial Times, said. “That has big implications for how people receive news, where they find it and what the quality of their news is.”

Facebook executives held off-the-record meetings with publications like The Wall Street Journal at the end of last year and spoke of renewing the focus on one-to-one communication among people who know one another over content distributed by publishers, according to a person who was familiar with the discussions but not authorized to speak publicly. Even after the heads-up, however, the specifics announced this week came as a surprise, the person said.

Jonah Peretti, the chief executive of BuzzFeed, highlighted the tensions between media organizations and the internet giants Facebook and Google in December, when he publicly criticized the mega-platforms that have fueled the site’s success.

“Google and Facebook are taking the vast majority of ad revenue, and paying content creators far too little for the value they deliver to users,” Mr. Peretti wrote in a memo published on BuzzFeed.

On Friday, the company, which once called Facebook the “new ‘front page’ for the internet,” posted an ad on the site urging people to download a news app from BuzzFeed. In its ad copy for the app, BuzzFeed boiled down the ramifications of Facebook’s latest algorithm change into a pithy phrase: “Facebook is breaking up with news.”

Nearly half of American adults get at least some of their news from Facebook, according to a recent survey from the Pew Research Center. Once the change is rolled out, people will still see articles shared by their friends — but posts from publisher pages will be less visible.

Facebook’s pulling back from the news — which necessarily depends on conflict — and elevation of homier material may bolster the company’s attempt to enter China, where it has been met with stiff resistance.

“Facebook is just desperate to get into China, and it will never do that unless it censors news — and this is actually a neat solution to that,” Mr. Weisberg, the Slate chairman, said. “If you only have news on the platform shared by users, users who live under repressive regimes don’t have access to real news and can’t share it, because it’s legally prohibited.”

As the site is now, every Facebook user sees a different set of posts and ads. These are ranked and tailored to what their online habits have suggested about their interests. Although Facebook prioritizes certain material — like those birth announcements that quickly draw Likes and comments — there are no firm rules for what pops up high in a given feed. In the coming weeks, though, users are likely to notice a reduction in how many posts appear from media organizations.

“Because space in News Feed is limited, showing more posts from friends and family and updates that spark conversation means we’ll show less public content, including videos and other posts from publishers,” Adam Mosseri, the head of Facebook’s News Feed, wrote in a blog post on Thursday.

Jason Kint, the chief executive of Digital Content Next, a trade group that represents entertainment and news organizations, including The Times, was skeptical of the Facebook plan.

“If this change is as significant as they describe it, news organizations will go out of business or succeed based on a change that they didn’t necessarily have input on,” Mr. Kint said. “It reads as something that will drive up engagement and probably push away policy risk, because they’re not allowing news properties to have the same sort of presence in their feeds.”

Mr. Kint added that he had hoped that it would have found a way to weed out hoaxes and made-up news stories that did not penalize publishers.

Raju Narisetti, the chief executive of the Gizmodo Media Group, the unit of Univision that operates Jezebel and other sites, said he was expecting the changes to kick in any day. He added that he had not heard from Facebook about what it will mean for his company and, like others in the media industry, he suggested that Mr. Zuckerberg’s company should be less mysterious.

“As always, it would be good to see transparency from any platform, particularly Facebook, as to how they are going about deciding what constitutes quality,” Mr. Narisetti said.

For media companies, a reliance on the company as a driver of traffic has proved an unreliable business model. A Facebook campaign against clickbait, for instance, sent click-dependent publishers like Upworthy into a tailspin several years ago.

Recently, in what may be a digital augury of sorts, Facebook experimented with removing news from the feeds of users in several countries and placing it into a separate feature called Explore, to the alarm of publishers. A Serbian editor described the shock of seeing traffic to his news site plummet while the experiment was underway, writing in a Times Op-Ed that such unpredictable changes by the company represented an existential threat “to the ability of citizens in all of the countries subject to Facebook’s experimentation to discover the truth about their societies and their leaders.”

In another initiative, Facebook paid millions to publishers, including The Times, to invest in making video shorts for Facebook Live, but it is unclear how successful the effort was for Facebook and the news organizations that signed on.

Savvy publishers have already recognized that they must find sizable audiences without the help of Facebook users. Referral traffic to media content from Facebook dropped by 25 percent from February 2017 to October 2017, according to Parse.ly, a digital publishing analytics company.

The algorithm changes will almost certainly affect ad-supported media companies like BuzzFeed and Bustle, which depend in part on Facebook for eyeballs. Publishers that have lately persuaded readers to pony up for subscriptions, including The Washington Post and The Times, will also have to confront likely declines in traffic.

As he has at the start of each year since 2009, Mr. Zuckerberg began 2018 by letting his audience in on the personal challenges he hoped to conquer. The chief one he mentioned in his Jan. 4 Facebook post was making the site he co-founded in 2004 a force for good. His company’s return to its scrapbook roots seems to be part of his attempt to live up to that aim.

“The world feels anxious and divided,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, “and Facebook has a lot of work to do — whether it’s protecting our community from abuse and hate, defending against interference by nation states, or making sure that time spent on Facebook is time well spent.”

SAN FRANCISCO — I’ve gone gray, and it’s great.

In an effort to break my smartphone addiction, I’ve joined a small group of people turning their phone screens to grayscale — cutting out the colors and going with a range of shades from white to black. First popularized by the tech ethicist Tristan Harris, the goal of sticking to shades of gray is to make the glittering screen a little less stimulating.

I’ve been gray for a couple days, and it’s remarkable how well it has eased my twitchy phone checking, suggesting that one way to break phone attachment may be to, essentially, make my phone a little worse. We’re simple animals, excited by bright colors, it turns out.

Silicon Valley companies like Facebook and Google know this, and they have increasingly been turning to the field of applied neuroscience to see how exactly brains respond to color in the apps, what brings pleasure and what keeps the eye. New research shows how important color is to our understanding of priorities and emotion.

But not everyone wants to be so enamored with their screen. This week, two major investors asked Apple to figure out how to help parents limit their children’s use of iPhones and iPads, citing concerns over  “long-term health.” There’s also a growing movement among some early tech employees warning against the products they’ve built. And many consumers are starting to wonder what this is all doing to our minds.

Mack McKelvey, the chief executive of the marketing firm SalientMG in Washington, D.C., said she’s aware of the tricks phones use to keep you on them longer — and coming back sooner.

“You don’t buy black-and-white cereal boxes, you buy the really stimulating colored one, and these apps have developed really cool tiles, cool shapes, cool colors, all designed to stimulate you,” Ms. McKelvey said. “But there’s a vibrant world out there, and my phone shouldn’t be it.”

She decided to make the switch to gray as well. But it was trickier than she expected.

“It took like 40 minutes to figure it out. They buried the setting,” she said. “You have to really want to do it.” (If you want to try, here are some tips.)

One person Facebook and others turn to is Thomas Z. Ramsoy, the chief executive of Neurons, a four-year-old company based in Copenhagen. His business uses brain scans and eye tracking technology to study apps, updates and future technology. The company often measures the electrical activity of the brain while a consumer is interacting with a phone, such as texting and scrolling Facebook.

The goal, Mr. Ramsoy said, is usually for a product to inspire happy emotions and draw attention without freaking a consumer out. For the past year, he said, Facebook has been its largest client, publicizing some of the research. “There is so much business now, we pinch ourselves,” he said.

“Color and shape, these are the icebreakers when it comes to grabbing people’s attention, and attention is the new currency,” he said. “Having an interface that grabs people’s attention without disturbing them in the wrong way, without consciously intruding in their space, that’s the fine line.”

What going grayscale does, Mr. Ramsoy said, is reintroduce choice.

Companies use colors to encourage subconscious decisions, Mr. Ramsoy said. (So that, for example, I may want to open email, but I’ll end up on Instagram, having seen its colorful button.) Making the phone gray eliminates that manipulation. Mr. Ramsoy said it reintroduces “controlled attention.”

“It’s a very good idea,” he said. “You have to take away the sound as well.”

One way Silicon Valley could help ease phone addiction is by using a more thoughtful color palette, said Bevil Conway, an investigator at the National Eye Institute, who researches color and emotion.

“Color’s not a signal for detecting objects, it’s actually something much more fundamental: It’s for telling us what’s likely to be important,” Mr. Conway said. “If you have lots of color and contrast then you’re under a constant state of attentional recruitment. Your attentional system is constantly going, ‘Look look look over here.’ ”

The same way people think about a color scheme when they’re planning the living room décor, Mr. Conway said, they should think about color when it comes to their phone’s home screen too.

“If you had a color palette, you would end up with a phone that looked pleasant and was not addictively rewarding, that had some intentionality, but of course nobody wants you to do that,” he said. “Because what they want is for you to look.”

Silicon Valley is in a battle for our attention, and often I feel like the last person in charge of my own eyes. After going to grayscale, I’m not a different person all of a sudden, but I feel more in control of my phone, which now looks like a tool rather than a toy. If I unlock it to write an email, I’m a little less likely to forget the goal and tap on Instagram. If I’m waiting in line for coffee, this gray slab is not as delightful a distraction as it once was.

The switch made me realize, in a tangible way, that I still have a little choice here.

“I’m up before the birds,” said Simon Huck, sitting in his living room lined with velvet walls that change color depending on the light. It was 8 a.m., and Mr. Huck had already eaten lunch.

Mr. Huck, 34, owns Command Entertainment Group, a company that connects brands (over 100 annually, he said, including the consumer-goods giant Unilever) to celebrities and “influencers.” His business has gotten a significant boost from his close friendship with Kim Kardashian West, who has 106 million Instagram followers, though she is not a client.

“He’s always been there at times when I’ve needed him,” Mrs. Kardashian West said in a phone interview. “He’s the definition of loyal. I feel like you need to surround yourself with people who make you laugh and keep your spirit alive as you grow and evolve.”

Also, “he’s someone that will drop anything and everything to really talk you through something,” Mrs. Kardashian West said.

As it happened, Mr. Huck had just picked something up: a leather briefcase. Wearing Saint Laurent jeans and a black T-shirt, he was walking the five minutes from his apartment in the West Village of Manhattan to the Soho House, where most mornings he does a few hours of emails or meetings before heading to his office a few blocks away.

Mr. Huck has been the sole owner of his company since 2012, when he bought out his partner, Jonathan Cheban, the reality TV star. He now employs seven and travels frequently, often watching his deals come to life — hey, there’s Neil Patrick Harris for Heineken Light! — on the television screen of an airport lounge or hotel room.

“It’s the most gratifying feeling, to see it all come together,” he said.

If Mr. Huck is awake, he is working, phone in hand — even when vacationing in Greece or in the Middle East with Mrs. Kardashian West. “He could be on a camel in Egypt reciting a paragraph from the contract,” said Carla Laur, a commercial endorsement agent at Creative Artists Agency who has worked on dozens of deals with Command Entertainment Group.

Mr. Huck suggested his dedication arises from mistrusting his good fortune. “I still have moments where I feel like someone is going to pull the rug from under me and be like, ‘You actually have to go to law school,’” he said. “It sometimes all feels like a dream.”

The seeds of success were sown during a snowstorm in 2005, when he was taking a break from studying political science at Queen’s University in Kingston, Canada, and flipping through the pages of US Weekly. The high-profile publicist Lizzie Grubman had been spotted making out with the singer John Mayer at the New York City hot spot Marquee.

“I went home, spent 24 hours on Google researching everything about P.R. and found Lizzie’s number,” Mr. Huck said.

Two days later he was in Manhattan for the first time.

Wearing a shiny khaki suit and square-toed Diesel shoes, Mr. Huck, positive he looked “so New York,” was given two minutes with Ms. Grubman’s chief financial officer.

“I was bumbling all over the place,” Mr. Huck said. “I left the office and I remember doing a Myspace upload in the elevator.”

One hour later, Mr. Cheban, then Ms. Grubman’s partner, called him to come back in. He had a job — well, an unpaid internship.

Mr. Huck abandoned his college apartment and everything in it, packed a duffel bag and stayed on friends’ couches for two years. He worked putting together invitation lists and securing red-carpet press. Sean Combs’s White Party in the Hamptons was one of his first big projects.

When Mr. Cheban left Ms. Grubman’s company to return to his own agency, Command PR, which he had started in 1999, he took Mr. Huck with him.

The two quickly went from giving brands suggestions of whom they should work with to negotiating the entire deal. They also met and befriended Kim Kardashian, who was then running a successful eBay closet along with the Dash boutique chain she founded with her sisters.

While they were at dinner with Kim and Kourtney Kardashian in Los Angeles, Kim said they were planning to do a reality show about their life and their families on the E! network.

“I didn’t think anything of it, but Kim always had conviction,” Mr. Huck said. “She’s one of the most brilliant marketers I’ve ever met in my life.” Moreover, “If I ever need advice, she’s the person I call and it’s straight up, tell it like it is. She’s a pragmatist.”

Even the executive-producing talents of Mrs. Kardashian West, alas, could not save the E! reality show Mr. Huck and Mr. Cheban did themselves: “The Spin Crowd.”

Still, Mr. Huck feels elevated by the experience, and excited for the future.

“I want to continue to grow and grow,” he said. “This is just the beginning.”

SYDNEY, Australia — At one of the first legal same-sex weddings held this week in Australia, two men pledged their lives to each other in front of a roomful of friends, relatives — and wedding vendors.

As the couple recited their vows on Thursday in front of Sydney’s Harbour Bridge, a team of photographers and videographers captured the moment. When one groom serenaded the other, a band played “Isn’t ‘He’ Lovely.”

In total, more than 20 suppliers — including caterers, florists and planners — donated 40,000 Australian dollars, about $31,470, in services to throw the men, Michael Petchell, 28, and Benjamin Gresham, 29, a wedding just two days after the first same-sex marriages were authorized.

Since Parliament approved gay marriage in December, analysts have predicted the expected increase in unions will create a 10 percent boom in wedding industry revenues.

“The industry itself is just excited,” said Wendy McColl, who organized a contest for a free gay wedding, which the newlyweds won. Vendors, she said, are “excited for the gay community. It’s a great change for Australia as a whole.”

Legalization came after more than a decade of failed attempts, prompting many vendors to suddenly shift marketing and buying strategies to adapt to the new era. In other words, “bridal party” is out, and “wedding party” is in. In a country where the marriage rate has been gradually declining, vendors are looking forward to a small boost.

Tony Richens, who runs the gay website Eikon, said businesses “can see value down the track.”

A report published last September by Cherelle Murphy, a senior economist at Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, forecast that if only half the 46,800 same-sex couples in Australia married, it would provide a boost of 650 million Australian dollars to the economy in 12 months.

Other projected benefits include spending from tourists looking to take advantage of the new law, increased consumer confidence, and business from Australian couples who would have otherwise married overseas.

In 2016, a quarter of  gay couples who married in New Zealand, where same-sex marriage has been legal since 2013, were Australians.

Hayley Fisher, a senior lecturer at the University of Sydney, said pent-up demand will result in a “pop of weddings” over the next few years. But while it was too early to tell, Dr. Fisher cautioned that the long-term economic effects are likely to be modest.

“There is going to be a whole new market, but there will be a stabilization,” she said.

Many suppliers in the wedding industry have proactively begun changing their marketing strategies. Some, like Katsu Nojiri, who photographed Thursday’s wedding, are experimenting for the first time with Google ads.

Others, like Raphael Kahn, managing director of Zest, which hosts 120 weddings annually at two venues, have begun advertising in same-sex friendly wedding directories.

“It definitely is good for the industry, and we certainly want to be there when it all happens,” Mr. Kahn said.

Business listing sites supportive of same-sex marriages say they have seen a burst of suppliers wanting to be included. Alexander Ross, the founder of the wedding guide Mr. Theodore, estimated a 200 percent increase in inquiries for listing requests since November.

“Australia’s not going to see weddings the way we’ve seen weddings in the past,” Mr. Ross said. “That traditional structure is evolving.”

Those changes are affecting all aspects of the industry. Cake designers are designing new styles of wedding cakes. Celebrants are overhauling their material to adapt to the new definition of marriage.

Some smaller players who have long served same-sex couples, however, now wonder if they will be overtaken by bigger players.

“I’ve been doing this for the last two years at least, and I’m gay and I have a partner,” Mr. Nojiri, the wedding photographer, said, adding that big studios are now pursuing his usual clients.

Other vendors said they had not yet seen an effect of the new legislation.

“I’d love to say yes, it’s been a boom, but I haven’t seen a boom yet,” said Dave Cowling, a videographer.

Sophie Noble, a spokeswoman for the Grand Pacific Group, which manages five popular Sydney wedding venues, said they saw a surge in bookings from both same-sex and heterosexual couples compared to this time last year.

Before the law passed last year, Mr. Petchell and Mr. Gresham considered going to New Zealand to get married, despite the financial strain.

“We didn’t really have any idea of what was involved in a wedding,” Mr. Gresham said. “It’s given us something we couldn’t have afforded otherwise,” he said of legalization.

And it has been a boon for his social life, too.

“We’ve been invited to four weddings already this year,” he said.