(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here’s the latest.

1. At least eight people were killed in what the authorities called a lone-wolf terror attack near the World Trade Center in Lower Manhattan.

The attacker struck more than a dozen people as he careened along a Hudson River bike path for nearly 20 blocks in a rented Home Depot pickup. He jumped out with pellet guns, was shot by the police and is in custody.

Two law enforcement officials said the 29-year-old assailant was heard yelling “God is great” in Arabic. The police were adding additional security around the city and at the Village Halloween Parade, which takes place nearby. Check back for updates on this developing story.

_____

2. Our White House correspondent writes that yesterday’s indictments of Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign manager, and his business associate, Rick Gates, amounted to a political body blow to Mr. Trump, even if they did not implicate him.

On Twitter, President Trump belittled George Papadopoulos, the campaign adviser who pleaded guilty to lying to the F.B.I. about how he sought to meet with Russians offering “dirt” on Hillary Clinton. (Turns out there are many men named George Papadopoulos, some of whom spent the day fielding calls from reporters.)

We collected the best writing from the right and left about the cases, and we discussed them on our podcast, “The Daily.”

_____

3. Lawyers for Facebook, Google and Twitter went to Capitol Hill for marathon hearings with a Senate Judiciary subcommittee about how Russia used their platforms to spread misinformation and propaganda during last year’s presidential election.

All three companies revealed far more Russia-linked activity than previously disclosed. Russian agents disseminated posts that reached 126 million users on Facebook and published more than 131,000 messages on Twitter and over 1,000 videos on YouTube.

Our behavioral science reporter recently explained the psychological factors that make us so vulnerable to misinformation on social media.

_____

4. Elsewhere in Washington, House Republicans were busy with last-minute negotiations on their tax plan. They’re supposed to unveil it tomorrow.

And uproar surged over comments by John Kelly, above, the White House chief of staff, that “the lack of an ability to compromise” led to the Civil War in an interview on Fox News.

Historians have spent decades documenting the central role of slavery in causing the conflict — and preceding it, the decades of compromises over African-Americans’ freedom.

_____

5. California is exporting some of the loudest new voices on the right.

The state as a whole is a bright blue bulwark of the liberal resistance. Yet it gave us Stephen Miller and Steve Bannon, above, and Andrew Breitbart, among others.

“There’s a rebellious tone to conservatism in California that doesn’t exist in places where conservatism is actually a governing force,” said Ben Shapiro, who runs a right-leaning website from Sherman Oaks.

_____

6. Three Dartmouth College professors are under criminal investigation for alleged sexual misconduct. All three work in the college’s department of psychological and brain sciences, and their research included studies of sexual desire and attractiveness.

Netflix suspended production on “House of Cards,” after Kevin Spacey was accused of making an unwanted sexual advance toward a 14-year-old in the ’80s.

Our journalists and lawyers explained how we choose the terminology to describe sexual assault in our coverage.

_____

7. In Germany, controversy broke out over plans to honor Anne Frank, the teenage diarist who died in the Holocaust, by naming a high-speed train after her.

“Historical amnesia,” charged the director of the Jewish Museum in Frankfurt. After being discovered in their Amsterdam canal house hide-out, the Franks were sent by train to Auschwitz.

_____

8. We debuted a new video series, “Internetting With Amanda Hess,” which examines online culture in all its strangeness. Episode 1 is “The Dark Art of Political Memes.”

To hear about future episodes, sign up here.

_____

9. For the third time in four seasons, there will be a Game 7 of the World Series. The Los Angeles Dodgers forced the winner-take-all game with a 3-1 victory over the Houston Astros, who are seeking the franchise’s first World Series title. Los Angeles is set to host Game 7 at 8:20 p.m. Wednesday on Fox.

_____

10. Finally, happy Halloween.

Here’s a collection of our spookiest science stories to entertain you in between trick-or-treaters, including some videos of undead arachnids and boa constrictors. It’s just a little bit of science. You’re not afraid, are you?

And we investigated the thrill of being scared. The love of haunted houses, horror movies and maybe those arachnids, it turns out, is linked to your dopamine levels.

Have a great night.

_____

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good morning.

Here’s what you need to know:

• NASA declared 2017 Earth’s second-warmest year on record. The high temperatures surprised scientists, who had expected a sharper retreat from recent record-breaking years.

Iran is the latest example of a water crisis — whether caused by nature, human mismanagement or both — signaling future unrest.

Above, a dam near Cape Town, which is experiencing a drought so severe that the city could run out of water by April.

_____

• Britain and France took steps to contain the fallout from Brexit.

President Emmanuel Macron of France and Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain reached agreements on defense, security and the treatment of migrants.

Mrs. May’s hopes of achieving a favorable trade deal with the E.U. have so far won little sympathy in France, which is keen to lure banks and other businesses from Britain.

Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is headed to Paris today for talks with Mr. Macron.

_____

• Germany has replaced the United States as the top-rated global power in an international poll.

Just 30 percent of people interviewed last year across 134 countries approved of U.S. leadership under President Trump, a drop of nearly 20 percentage points since 2016. China has nearly reached parity with the U.S., and Russia is barely trailing it at 27 percent.

There were bright spots for Mr. Trump in Belarus, Israel, Liberia and Macedonia, where approval of American leadership has surged.

_____

• In Washington,  Senate Democrats looked ready to block a stopgap bill meant to keep much of the government from shutting down tonight at midnight. The Democrats are intent on securing concessions that would, among other things, protect young immigrants from deportation.

The Supreme Court temporarily blocked a redistricting effort in North Carolina. The decision makes it likely that the 2018 midterm elections will be held using district layouts that are favorable to Republicans.

Our editorial board went silent for a day, devoting its usual space in print to letters from Trump supporters.

_____

• Free cellos, violins and pianos: With his new academy, the French countertenor Philippe Jaroussky hopes to attract younger, more diverse audiences to classical music.

Voici notre entretien avec M. Jaroussky en français: «Si nous n’apportons pas de mixité sociale sur scène, nous n’aurons pas de public plus jeune et plus diversifié, non plus.»

Here are seven other uplifting stories we covered this week, from art doppelgängers to a blessing of pets in Madrid.

• Apple should reinvent the smartphone by making it less addictive, our technology columnist writes.

• A lifeline for the Airbus A380: Emirates put in a $16 billion order, just days after Airbus said it might have to stop production.

• Rising  oil prices have brightened Russia’s once-gloomy economic outlook, despite sanctions.

• Amazon whittled contenders for its second North American headquarters down to 20, from 238. (In a video, we look at the more unusual bids.)

•  Here’s a snapshot of global markets.

• A deadly storm swept through parts of continental Europe, killing at least seven people. Most long-distance rail service in Germany should resume today. (Above, rail travelers stranded in Frankfurt.) [Associated Press]

• Pope Francis drew rebuke when he accused victims of Chile’s most notorious pedophile of slandering a bishop. [The New York Times]

• The Trump administration is moving faster than expected to transfer the U.S. Embassy in Israel to Jerusalem. [The New York Times]

• The French journalist who started the #BalanceTonPorc, or #ExposeYourPig, campaign was sued for defamation by the man she accused of making humiliating advances toward her. [The New York Times]

• In Britain, residents, officials and property owners are arguing over who should pay to replace flammable cladding on buildings — the kind that contributed to the Grenfell Tower fire last year. [The New York Times]

• In Italy, 33 people were arrested in a crackdown on a Chinese mafia organization that the police say had expanded across Europe. [The New York Times]

• Gabon dismantled a network that traded six tons of ivory last year and had links to Boko Haram, the Islamist militant group. [The New York Times]

• Roy Bennett, a rarity in Zimbabwe — a white opposition politician with a significant black following — died in a helicopter crash in the U.S. [The New York Times]

• The police in Hungary had an arrest warrant out for Sebastian Gorka, a former White House national security adviser, while he was serving in the Trump administration. [Associated Press]

• In California, the parents accused of holding their 13 children in captivity were formally charged with torture and abuse. They could face life in prison. [The New York Times]

Tips, both new and old, for a more fulfilling life.

• Recipe of the day: Round out the week with the sweet and satisfying Canadian butter tart.

• It’s still worth getting a flu shot. (Here’s the latest on the flu season in Europe.)

• And here are five ways to protect yourself from digital snooping. (Consider this: We just learned that Lebanon has for years turned Android phones into spying devices.)

• We launched a new animated video series, Conception, based on readers’ accounts of their experiences with motherhood. In the first episode, we hear from a woman who raised a son alone after her activist husband was killed in El Salvador.

• Newly discovered photographs taken by J.M. Coetzee, the Nobel-winning novelist, in his teenage years reveal a South African adolescence shaped by art and apartheid.

• Elena Ferrante, the pseudonymous Italian writer, will write a weekly column in The Guardian.

• In Spain, a writer reconnected with the soulful culture of her ancestors and a town that (almost) bears her name.

•  Prague’s famed Astronomical Clock is undergoing repairs, and the city’s clock master is returning it to its 15th-century roots.

• And in tennis news, temperatures don’t get much more extreme than they are right now at the Australian Open.

Long before the world got hooked on “Game of Thrones,” “I Love Lucy” was almost unprecedented in popularity — and daring in content for the time.

Lucy was one of the first pregnant characters shown on U.S. television, and 44 million viewers tuned to CBS 65 years ago today to see Lucille Ball’s character become a mother.

(Lucy gave birth to Ricky on the air the same night, it turns out, that Ms. Ball gave birth to her second child.)

Audience numbers like that episode’s have since been far surpassed — the Super Bowl, for instance, has drawn more than 100 million viewers for each of the past eight years. But almost 72 percent of TVs in the U.S. were tuned in to “I Love Lucy” that day, an astonishing feat.

According to Nielsen’s, the final episode of “M*A*S*H,” in 1983, had the highest rating of any fictional show in U.S. history, 125 million. But few shows can rival the positive response that the “I Love Lucy” birth episode, and the arrival of Ms. Ball’s second child, elicited.

“One million viewers responded with congratulatory telephone calls, telegrams, letters or gifts,” The Times noted in Ms. Ball’s obituary in 1989.

Anna Schaverien contributed reporting.

_____

This briefing was prepared for the European morning and is updated online. Browse past briefings here.

You can get the briefing delivered to your inbox Monday through Friday. We have four global editions, timed for the Americas, Europe, Asia and Australia, and an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights. Check out our full range of free newsletters here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.

Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching: 

• Stocks enter correction territory.

• Qualcomm rejects Broadcom’s revised offer.

• Snap and Twitter: From also-rans to worthy contenders?

• BlackRock is reportedly setting its sights on Berkshire Hathaway and the Blackstone Group.

• A top WSJ editor heads to Lazard.

• Brunswick Group has named Neal Wolin as its new C.E.O.

Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.

The Dow Jones industrial average and S.&P. 500 went more the 400 days without a pullback of 5 percent.

That streak ended this week, and on Thursday, the two indexes fell into correction territory, defined as a pullback of at least 10 percent from their high. For both, it is the first time they have crossed into a correction since early 2016.

The Dow plunged more than 1,000 points Thursday, its second decline of more than 1,000 points this week. The S. & P. 500 dropped 100 points, its third decline of more than 100 points in its history.

On a percentage basis, the Dow fell 4.15 percent, the S. & P. 500 dropped 3.75 percent and the Nasdaq slid 3.9 percent.

The bigger picture

Anxieties about inflation have driven the much of decline over the past week and a half. The yield on the benchmark Treasury note climbed above 2.85 percent — its highest level since 2014 — for the second time this week. Higher yields can crimp economic activity by raising borrowing costs, while also making riskier assets like stocks less appealing to bonds.

Many market watchers say that investors should not worry about the recent spate of volatility in the stock market. Such swings, they say, are normal. They point to strong corporate earnings and a strengthening economy both in the United States and abroad as reasons to be optimistic about stocks.

“I’m definitely in the camp that says this is a healthy correction,” said Joe Brusuelas, chief economist at RSM US LLP, told the WSJ.

• Greg Ip of the WSJ notes how much the markets now depend on low interest rates.

• Neil Irwin of the Upshot asks: How much inflation can we tolerate? The answer isn’t simple.

Investor sentiment has reversed in recent weeks as the sell-off in stocks gained momentum.

According to the American Association of Individual Investors’ weekly survey, bullish sentiment, or the percentage of respondents that say stocks will rise over the next six months, declined to 37 percent. The drop ended a streak of eight straight weeks with bullish sentiment above its historical average of 38.5 percent.

It began the year at nearly 60 percent, its highest level since 2010.

The context

The survey has proved to be a good contrarian indicator. That means overly bullish sentiment often signals that the stock market is ripe for a pullback, while overly bearish sentiment often indicates that market may soon rally.

The chip maker said its board had rejected Broadcom’s revised $121 billion offer.

The reasons

Qualcomm said that it was willing to meet with Broadcom to see if its issues with the offer could be addressed.

The context

On Monday, Broadcom raised its takeover bid for Qualcomm to $82 per share from $70 per share, a month before Qualcomm’s annual shareholder meeting where it hopes to unseat company’s entire board. The improved offer was designed to entice shareholders to demand that Qualcomm’s executives begin negotiations.

Qualcomm’s management team and board have consistently argued that Broadcom’s takeover approach is opportunistic since it is unfolding during Qualcomm’s bruising legal fight with Apple, as well as priced too low.

Till this week, many investors wondered whether Snap and Twitter had much of a future at a time when Google and Facebook are sucking up such a large share of digital advertising dollars. But after Snap and Twitter reported earnings this week, the view now seems to be that there is space for the two firms to make good money, even as they remain in the shadow of Facebook and Google.

Big stock moves. Twitter is up 16 percent in trading on Thursday after reporting fourth-quarter earnings. Snap, though down 8 percent on Thursday, is up over 30 percent since reporting its results earlier this week.

Twitter and Snap are at very different stages of development. Though Snap added new users at a nice clip in the fourth quarter, the company still needs to prove that Snapchat is an effective and convenient place for big companies to advertise. In that sense, it is like Facebook in its early days as a public company. Twitter, however, needs to show that it can wring more revenue out of a slower-growing collection of users.

The bright spots shone out. Snap’s strong user growth, up 18 percent in the fourth quarter, is a sign that it remains a draw to younger users that advertisers are keen to reach. While Twitter’s user growth and advertising revenue for the United States was unimpressive in the fourth quarter, the company showed solid gains in both in the rest of the world. And there was evidence that Twitter is getting better at squeezing advertising revenue out of its users. Twitter’s executives, without providing much numerical evidence, said that users are engaging more with ads, even while the costs of those ads fell for advertisers.

Valuable breathing room. The fourth-quarter results bought both companies more time to prove themselves. And the financial pressure has lessened at Twitter. It is now churning out roughly half a billion dollars a year in cash flow, even including outlays for new plant and equipment.

But it will be a slog. The fourth quarter is generally bumper period for companies that rely on digital advertising, so the next couple of quarters could feel like a let down for Snap and Twitter. And if the companies disappoint, the stocks, far more highly valued than Facebook, could plunge. Twitter trades at 26 times the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization that analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect for the company in 2018. Facebook trades at 15 times forecast 2018 Ebitda. Analysts expect Snap’s Ebitda to be negative this year.

— Peter Eavis

BlackRock is already the $6 trillion gorilla of the investing world. But its effort to raise more than $10 billion to buy and hold direct stakes in companies (as reported by the WSJ, citing unnamed sources) could put it more directly in competition with Mr. Fink’s old firm, the Blackstone Group.

BlackRock itself raises a different comparison, according to Sarah Krouse of the WSJ — to Warren Buffett:

BlackRock’s Long-Term Private Capital fund would be a tenth of Berkshire’s $101 billion in cash. But it too would look to buy and hold positions for more than 10 years. Over all, though, this seems more akin to private equity.

The bigger picture: BlackRock is competing against Blackstone and other asset managers for higher-fee investing products. (Mr. Fink’s firm, of course, helped spearhead the rise of low-cost funds.)

Peter Eavis’s take: There’s an old rule. “Beware of money managers saying that they will be like Buffett.”

Dennis Berman, the WSJ’s financial editor, will join the investment bank’s shareholder advisory practice, which helps defend companies against activist investors.

The practice has grown on Wall Street with the rise of activist investors, with investment banks touting their defense capabilities to corporate clients.

Before becoming finance editor at the Journal, Mr. Berman oversaw the paper’s business coverage and was its M.&A. reporter prior to that.

Mr. Berman, who will join as a managing director and be based in New York, will start on Feb. 26.

— Michael J. de la Merced

Andrew, with a bit of context

It’s Neal Wolin, a former deputy secretary for the Treasury Department in the Obama administration who has been a senior counselor to the communications firm for the past three years.

Mr. Wolin, who will remain based in Washington, will take over from the London-based Susan Gilchrist, who will become chairwoman of Brunswick’s global clients operations and focus on client work full time.

Alan Parker, Brunswick’s founder, said in a telephone interview of the move, “It reflects the growth of the business and the business opportunity in America.”

The context

Many financial P.R. firms has been expanding beyond advising on mergers and on activist shareholder situations into work that touches on government relations and more. (Brunswick last week announced that it was forming a geopolitical consultancy group whose members include Bob Zoellick, the former Bush administration official.)

In some ways, the appointment of Mr. Wolin reflects that trend. Beyond his time at the Treasury Department, he previously worked as a senior executive at The Hartford, an insurer. And he was previously a Treasury Department official in the Clinton administration.

“Increasingly, I think senior executives and boards of directors have come to understand that a lot of their challenges and opportunitiess sit at the intersection of business and governments and society and so forth,” Mr. Wolin said in a phone interview.

Or as Mr. Parker put it, “More and more we hear ourselves described as a critical issues business.”

Other moves at Brunswick

• Rob Pinker, who was the firm’s C.O.O., will become the chairman of its emerging markets business.

• Helen James, a partner, was named to the firm’s C.O.O.

— Michael J. de la Merced

From the company’s earnings announcement:

• Fourth-quarter revenue was $732 million, up 2 percent year over year.

• Ad revenue hit $644 million, barely up from the same time last year.

• Ad engagement was up 75 percent year over year.

• Fourth-quarter profit — Twitter’s first as a public company — was $91 million.

• Monthly active users hit 330 million, up 4 percent year over year but flat quarter over quarter. (Twitter says that it purged some fake user accounts, which limited user growth numbers.)

• Daily active users ... wasn’t actually disclosed, only that it was up 12 percent year over year. Make of that as you will.

• Shares in Twitter were up 23 percent in early-morning trading today/

— Michael J. de la Merced

The recent stock market freak-out may have abated, but the dynamics that drove the sell-off — worries that faster global growth and hotter inflation will trigger faster-than-expected rate hikes — are alive and well in the currency markets.

On Thursday, the Bank of England raised its growth forecasts for the United Kingdom, and Mark Carney, the bank’s governor, said rates would likely have to be increased faster than previously expected.

The British pound promptly popped by more than 1 percent against the dollar, and yields on British government bonds rose. Treasury bonds yields in the United States also rose, with the 10-year note offering yields of nearing 2.90 percent.

The sight of bond yields nearing 3 percent should keep stock investors on edge amid the growing conviction we’re moving out of the era of low-interest rates, which were such a key ingredient for the near-decade-long bull market in stocks.

— Matt Phillips

The bigger picture

As President Trump tweeted, “We have so much good (great) news about the economy!” (It was the first time he had weighed in on the stock market moves, our colleagues Michael Shear and Alan Rappeport noted yesterday.) And indeed, analysts and economists said most economic indicators showed the U.S. doing well.

But Greg Ip of the WSJ notes how much the markets now depend on low interest rates.

Meanwhile, Neil Irwin of the Upshot asks, How much inflation can we tolerate? The answer isn’t simple.

A bonus: How millennials coped with the market gyrations.

If the Senate has its way, yes. But critics in the House — where both Nancy Pelosi and hard-line conservatives denounced the proposal — may yet stop it.

What business cares about in the proposal:

• Nearly $300 billion in additional spending over the next two years

• $20 billion for infrastructure spending

• A lifting of the debt ceiling until March 2019

The bigger picture, from Thomas Kaplan of the NYT:

It’s a complete reversal by Republicans on deficit spending.

Elsewhere in Washington: The White House’s staff secretary, Rob Porter, resigned amid allegations of domestic abuse.

Steve Wynn is gone. And Wynn’s shares leapt nearly 9 percent on that news.

But the Massachusetts gaming commission is still investigating the company after sexual misconduct allegations going back decades emerged against the casino mogul. So is Macau, the home of its most profitable business.

The spotlight on Wynn’s board: Our colleague Peter Eavis raised questions about the board’s independence, like why it didn’t suspend Mr. Wynn while it investigated the allegations. The Massachusetts commission also had concerns. Elizabeth Winkler of Heard on the Street thinks the board should go.

Without that crown jewel, the media company may find its digital strategy harder to achieve. (Tronc’s chairman, Michael Ferro, wanted 100 million monthly unique visitors. This sale makes that virtually impossible. And while the deal will let Tronc repay all its debt, it’s also parting with the source of a third of its operating profit, as Lex points out.)

So would someone like Gannett want what remains of Tronc, such as the Chicago Tribune and the Baltimore Sun?

More on the LAT’s new owner: Patrick Soon-Shiong made his billions in the generic drug business, but has stayed relatively low-profile. (Other than being sued for stock fraud by Cher, and being the subject of news reports that he donates to hospitals that then do business with his companies.)

More on local news: Farhad Manjoo thinks it can be funded by — get this — readers paying for it.

Buying the chip maker ARM: We get that. But what does Masa Son’s Japanese conglomerate want with Swiss Re, one of the world’s biggest reinsurers?

Maybe it’s cash: $6 billion a year from operations, which could shore up SoftBank’s debt-heavy balance sheet. Or maybe it’s risk diversification.

The details: SoftBank is in talks to buy up to a third of Swiss Re at a premium to its Wednesday closing price.

The deals flyaround

• AT&T plans to spin out the Latin American operations of DirecTV, potentially raising billions of dollars. (WSJ)

• The insurer XL Group, whose market cap yesterday was $9.6 billion, has drawn takeover interest from Allianz and other rivals, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)

• The department store operator Hudson’s Bay plans to reject Signa Holding’s $3.7 billion bid for its Kaufhof retail unit in Germany, unnamed sources say. (Reuters)

• Perry Ellis’s former executive chairman has made a $430 million takeover bid for the clothing line. (WSJ)

• Goldman is in advanced talks to buy Clarity, an A.I.-based financial advice start-up, for its Marcus personal-lending unit, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)

Around $8,441, according to CoinMarketCap.

• Forbes tried to list virtual currency billionaires — and demonstrated how fleeting that wealth can be. (NYT)

• Meet a new virtual currency skeptic: Jim Yong Kim, the head of the World Bank, who compared digital money to Ponzi schemes. (Bloomberg)

Here are some of Peter Eavis’s takeaways from the carmaker’s fourth-quarter results:

What was OK: Tesla lost $3.04 per share, less than analysts forecast. Its $3.29 billion of revenue in the fourth quarter was roughly in line with expectations.

What disappointed: Tesla’s gross margin in its auto business, which reveals the profitability of actually producing its cars, came in at 13.8 percent, below the “about 15 percent” it forecast when reporting third-quarter results.

The culprit: The Model 3.

Naspers, the South African tech conglomerate, and Meituan, the Chinese e-commerce company, said on Thursday that they were investing $100 million in Swiggy, an Indian food delivery app. (Naspers has done so before.)

The money will help the nearly four-year-old Swiggy build out its tech platform, expand its network and cut its delivery times.

Behind the deal

Food delivery is taking off in emerging markets just as it is in developed ones — but is focused even more on restaurants that make food explicitly for these services.

Naspers Ventures’s chief, Larry Illg, told Michael that lessons from Swiggy’s rise could help it with other investments, like Delivery Hero. “The players tend not to cross borders, but consumer behavior is the same everywhere,” he said.

The tech flyaround

• How Uber and Alphabet went from brothers to bitter enemies. (NYT)

• YouTube’s algorithmic recommendations can lead users to conspiracy theories and misleading videos. (WSJ)

The fast-growing medical records company can use a veteran corporate chieftain, particularly as it seeks to prove it can mature.

“I literally feel like I just scored a decade’s worth of guitar lessons from Elvis,” Jonathan Bush, the company’s founder and C.E.O., told Michael.

The big questions

• Is Mr. Immelt, whose successor at G.E. is trying to turn the company around after years of stagnation, the right man to chair Athenahealth?

• Can a company founder take direction from an outsider?

• Lyft has hired Jon McNeill, most recently Tesla’s president of global sales and service, as its C.O.O. (Axios)

• Scott Garrett, the former Republican lawmaker rejected as a nominee to lead the U.S.’s Export-Import Bank, will join the S.E.C. as an adviser. (WSJ)

Yesterday’s newsletter misspelled the surname of Slack’s C.F.O. He is Allen Shim, not Allen Shin.

• The Justice Department charged 36 people after taking down a credit card crime website responsible for more than $530 million in losses. (Wired)

• China’s economic success lays bare an uncomfortable historical truth: No one who preaches “free trade” really practices it. (NYT)

• Google’s deal for Chelsea Market is the latest example of an internet behemoth expanding its footprint in New York. (NYT)

• Amazon will offer Whole Foods groceries through its Prime Now two-hour delivery service. (CNBC)

• Elizabeth Warren’s office said that the hackers at Equifax gained access to consumers’ passport numbers. The company denies this. (WSJ)

• Tinder has patented its swipe technology and its double opt-in function. (Axios)

• Theresa May is drawing up plans to break from some E.U. regulations, including in financial services, as soon as Britain leaves the bloc, unnamed sources say. (Bloomberg)

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Last week, Netflix decided to have some holiday fun courtesy of its user data. So the streaming service  took to Twitter to pose the question, “To the 53 people who’ve watched A Christmas Prince every day for the past 18 days: Who hurt you?”

The tweet was meant to be an entertaining jab at a cheesy holiday film that the company released last month. But while many saw the humor, others were creeped out by the specificity of the information, with some complaining that Netflix appeared to be using its data in a flip manner that mocked some customers.

It’s no secret that companies, especially those born in the digital age, are amassing deep and detailed troves of information on the habits and preferences of their consumers. For streaming services, that data fuels the recommendations. But companies are also taking a bit of a risk when they turn those findings into marketing, whether through conversational social media posts or advertisements from Spotify with lines like “Take a page from the 3,445 people who streamed the ‘Boozy Brunch’ playlist on a Wednesday this year.”

A message that one person might see as clever and unexpected can just as easily be seen by another as an ominous reminder that Big Data is often lurking just around the corner.

“This gives the public a kind of view into the ways that the major content companies are gathering and using our data,” said Jeffrey Chester, head of the nonprofit Center for Digital Democracy, which advocates for consumer protection and privacy. “Behind the ease of being able to access video and audio content are very sophisticated customer surveillance and analytics applications, and there’s nothing funny about that.”

Others scoffed at such concern last week, saying Netflix’s joke was harmless and noting that people were complaining on a social media platform that engages in similar data collection practices.

Spotify is in the midst of its third ad campaign featuring tag lines rooted in highly specific listener data. (Indeed, several people called Netflix out for seeming to copy Spotify with its post.) The music streaming service recently bought ads on billboards and buildings with a marketing message built around the theme “2018 Goals,” with cheeky messages that sometimes have a political bent.

“Deliver burns as well as the person who streamed ‘Bad Liar’ 86 times the day Sean Spicer resigned,” one proclaims. Another says, “Eat vegan brisket with the person who made a playlist called ‘Leftist Elitist Snowflake BBQ.’”

Spotify ran a similar campaign last year, bidding farewell to 2016 with messages like “Dear person who played ‘Sorry’ 42 times on Valentine’s Day, what did you do?” One message even referred to a specific Manhattan neighborhood: “To the person in NoLiTa who started listening to holiday music way back in June, you really jingle all the way, huh?” The company said  this year that it had more than 140 million regular users, with 50 million paying for monthly subscription plans and others using a free service that comes with targeted ads.

Spotify’s marketing executives said last year that they avoided lines that appeared to be laughing at people’s habits in favor of those that celebrated unusual behavior. They also said they sought permission from people when using their playlist names in ads. The people were usually delighted to be asked, the executive said, who noted that the data collection wasn’t a surprise given that that’s how Spotify provides users with its weekly recommendations and year-end lists.

People and publications such as AdWeek and AdAge called the campaign “amusing,” “playful” and “hilarious.” While that has largely continued this year, there has also been criticism that some of the messages veer too close to making fun of users.

And the Netflix hubbub didn’t seem to help.

Netflix, which has more than 100 million members, emphasized that the use of data to better serve users was a main part of its business and that its behavioral data was collected anonymously.

The company has frequently shared interesting information about viewers’ habits in the past, said Jonathan Friedland, a Netflix spokesman. He added that last week’s tweet might have inspired an intense reaction in part because “it was brought down to an individual level as opposed to a broader trend level.” But he pointed out that Netflix does not use customer data to sell ads on its platform, as Google and Facebook do, or sell it to other entities.

Tidbits on Netflix viewing habits are “fascinating to people,” Mr. Friedland said. “It’s not like you’re breaching anybody’s privacy, because the core proposition here is we know you and try to put the right” films and TV series in front of you.

(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here’s the latest.

1. “To pause and look back is a revelation.” See the photos that our editors chose for The Year in Pictures, including the image above, of Rohingya refugees fleeing Myanmar.

“It’s a cliché to remark that the time has moved quickly and slowly all at once,” our writer Amanda Hess says in an accompanying essay. “But one of the dark powers of our devices is to bend time, to suck us into the screen and spit us out seemingly months later. To study these photos is to be perpetually surprised at everything that happened this year.”

_____

2. Congress passed the $1.5 trillion tax cut (the House for the second time in two days, after a procedural snag). It’s on its way to President Trump’s desk, and he celebrated its passage at the White House, above.

The measure is the biggest overhaul of the tax code in a generation, and Democrats vowed to use it as a cudgel in the 2018 midterm elections. Republicans say the bill’s results will make it popular.

The measure also eliminates the Affordable Care Act’s rule that most people have health insurance or pay a penalty. We discussed the idea’s Republican, conservative origins, and what the change will mean on “The Daily.”

_____

3. At a cabinet meeting, President Trump threatened to cut aid to any country that votes in favor of a resolution at the U.N. General Assembly denouncing his decision to recognize Jerusalem as Israel’s capital.

It’s difficult to see how Mr. Trump could deliver on his threat, since it could involve cutting off aid to a number of strategic allies, including Egypt. The vote comes Thursday.

_____

4. Cardinal Bernard Law, who resigned as archbishop of Boston in 2002 amid the pedophile priest scandal seen in the film “Spotlight,” died in Rome. He was 86. His funeral will be held in St. Peter’s Basilica on Thursday.

In his long career, he had campaigned for civil rights and social justice, defended church orthodoxy and become a friend of presidents, the pope and other powerful figures.

But his stature was shattered by revelations that he had protected child molesters for years.

_____

5. The European Union’s highest court declared that Uber is a transportation business, not just a tech platform that connects drivers with riders. Above, an anti-Uber protest in Spain.

The ruling is a blow to Uber, which must now abide by the same rules as taxi companies. And it could have big ramifications for other tech companies benefiting from the gig economy, built on freelance, short-term workers.

_____

6. The season of giving has also become a time for stealing other people’s gifts.

The rise in online shopping means bonanzas for porch pirates, who help themselves to boxes left outside homes.

People are using surveillance technology to thwart thieves — and social media to shame them.

_____

7. When the Winklevoss twins invested their Facebook settlement in Bitcoin, many snickered.

But the soaring value of Bitcoin is giving the entrepreneur brothers a moment of vindication: Their stockpile is now worth $1.3 billion.

_____

8. It was just another day in the recording studio.

That was the key to writing Ed Sheeran’s “Shape of You,” the runaway hit that topped Billboard’s year-end singles chart and has become the most-played track ever on Spotify, with more than 1.5 billion streams.

In this video, Mr. Sheeran and his writing mates explain how they crafted the tune in just 90 minutes. And he sheepishly admits he had no idea it was anything special.

_____

9. Thursday is the solstice, the shortest day of winter in the Northern Hemisphere and the longest day of summer in the Southern.

In New York City, the sun will be in the sky for just over nine hours. Starting Friday, the days will start to get longer once again. Here’s more about how it works — and why humans might not exist without it.

_____

10. Finally, the latest episode in our video series “Dance in the Real World” takes you inside the vogueing scene in New York City, above.

And late-night hosts had a lot to say about the tax bill. Jimmy Fallon noted a report that found many Americans would end up paying more in taxes by 2027.

“Trump said it’s payback for the majority of Americans who voted for Hillary Clinton,” he joked.

Have a great night.

_____

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

Good Thursday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• Why Trump might have trouble reining in Amazon.

• Public pension fund wants changes to Facebook’s board.

• Trump tweets Amazon does not pay enough taxes.

• Another FANG stock took a tumble.

• The Trump administration wants to further thwart sensitive Chinese investments.

The DealBook newsletter is taking a break for Good Friday. We’ll be back with you on Monday. Sign up for it here.

Amazon hasn’t responded to President Trump’s latest tweet about the company, and most likely won’t.

Mr. Trump’s criticisms, though, are largely mistaken. For a long time, Amazon did not pay state sales tax, but it does so now when it sells its own goods in states that collect it. It is the case, however, that in most states Amazon does not collect sales taxes on goods sold by third parties through its platform. As for the United States Postal Service, Amazon’s business appears to be giving a welcome lift to its package shipping revenue.

Still, Amazon cannot quietly hope that such criticism just fades away. Amazon’s rapid growth, immense bargaining power, eye-catching initiatives and estimated 44 percent share of U.S. e-commerce sales make the company vulnerable to accusations that it is too powerful.

But if the Trump administration pursues ways to curtail the company, it would meet sizable obstacles.

Amazon accounts for only 4 percent of all retail sales in the United States, a recent survey estimated. Its revenue is a third of Walmart’s and, even after its acquisition of Whole Foods, Amazon’s footing in the grocery business is still small.

All in all, it would be hard to show that Amazon is pushing prices higher for consumers.

Amazon also has a loyal customer base — it has an estimated 90 million Prime members — and the public views it relatively favorably. When the Department of Justice’s antitrust lawyers went after the proposed merger of Time Warner and AT&T, it was not targeting companies that were particularly popular with the public.

Still, some Amazon critics see a possible, though small, opening. In theory, an antitrust case could focus on the firms that supply Amazon with goods, according to Christopher L. Sagers, a law professor at Cleveland State University. If a company consistently uses its power to demand a good from suppliers at too low a price, the public could still get hurt. That’s because the supply of the good could decline, its quality degrade, and there may be less innovation in the sector that produces the good, Mr. Sagers said.

But anyone bringing that against Amazon would have to explain why Walmart would not be a target, too.

— Peter Eavis

The investment adviser to New York City’s pension funds is calling for changes to Facebook’s board to address the fallout from Cambridge Analytica’s improper harvesting of information from 50 million users of the social network.

New York City’s comptroller, Scott M. Stringer, wrote in a letter addressed to Dr. Susan Desmond-Hellmann, an independent director at Facebook and the chief executive of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation:

New York City’s pension funds, which have more than $193 billion in assets under management, own $895 million of Facebook’s shares, according to the letter. Even with the recent tumble in its shares, Facebook is valued at more than $450 billion.

In his letter, Mr. Stringer calls on Facebook’s independent directors to take four steps to help restore investor confidence.

Here are the proposed changes:

1) Add at least three new independent directors to improve the board’s ability to oversee the evolving risks Facebook faces.

2) Name an independent director as chairman, allowing Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive and chairman, to focus on running the company.

3) Create a committee of independent directors to oversee the company’s data privacy policies and risks.

4) Institute a clawback policy so that the board can “recoup executive pay in the event of violations of law, regulation or company policy.”

President Trump spoke out against Amazon on Thursday, saying that the online behemoth does not pay enough taxes and uses the United States postal system “as their Delivery Boy.”

The president’s commentary, made in a Twitter post, comes amid reports that Mr. Trump has expressed an interest in reining in the e-commerce business.

Amazon and the company’s founder, Jeff Bezos, are among Mr. Trump’s regular Twitter targets. In December, Mr. Trump questioned whether the United States Post Office charges Amazon enough for package deliveries. And in August, Mr. Trump said Amazon hurts taxpaying businesses.

Amazon, however, does pay taxes — $412 million in 2016, for instance, according to the company’s report to the Securities and Exchange Commission.

Axios reported on Wednesday that Mr. Trump has wondered aloud whether Amazon could be vulnerable to antitrust or competition laws.

Amazon shares fell more than 7 percent following that Axios article but recovered some of those losses after a White House official told Reuters that the company faced no particular policy changes. But the administration is always looking at its options, the official added. The stock closed down 4.4 percent Wednesday.

Shares were down nearly 2 percent in early trading.

Should shareholders worry? The GBH Insights analyst Daniel Ives told Bloomberg that this regulatory threat was unlikely to change Amazon’s business model, but it was still “the last thing nervous tech investors wanted to see today.”

Retailers, at least, already have some reason to be cheerful.

And Amazon has another target market for expansion: housekeeping.

Corporate American will start reporting first-quarter results in less than two weeks, and earnings are expected to be big.

Analysts estimate that profits at companies in the S.&P. 500 grew 17.3 percent this quarter, according to FactSet. If the forecasts prove accurate that would be highest earnings growth rate since the first quarter of 2011.

Perhaps most surprising, is that analysts have grown more optimistic on corporate earnings as the quarter progressed. The earnings forecast for the index rose 5.4 percent from the start of the quarter to the end. Typically, analysts lower their expectations as the quarter progresses. On average, the profit estimates for the index fall 3.7 percent from the start of the quarter to the end.

But there are reasons for investors to temper their enthusiasm. Analysts have not been as optimistic about the abilities of companies to increase sales. Revenue is expected to have grown 7.3 percent in the first quarter, up from a 7 percent rate at the start of the quarter.

That suggests analysts are not raising estimates because of increased sales. So why are they? Taxes. And the impact tax reform will have on bottom lines should moderate in the coming quarters.

That may already be happening. BofA Merrill Lynch’s earnings revision ratio for the S.&P. 500 fell in March for the first time in three months. Of course, the pullback comes after the ratio hits the highest level on record in February, but it does suggest that earnings lift from tax reform has begun to wane.

Investors, always willing to believe in technology companies, spent the last three years piling into their shares with abandon. Now the intellectual underpinnings of that rally are being tested.

Exhibit A: Facebook, down 20 percent from its recent high.

Exhibit B: Nvidia, off 12 percent from its recent high.

Exhibit C: Tesla, not a tech stock but in the FANG+ index.

Concerns about Tesla’s ability to fund itself can also be seen in the trading of its debt.

The WSJ’s Charley Grant explains:

Peter Eavis notes that the latest problems for tech giants have raised deeper doubts:

Barclays said on Thursday that it agreed to pay $2 billion to settle a lawsuit by United States authorities that accused the British bank of fraudulently misleading the public in the sale of tens of billions of dollars in securities backed by home mortgages.

The Justice Department sued the bank in December 2016 after the two sides failed to reach a settlement despite months of talks. The settlement is the latest by a European lender related to residential mortgage-backed securities sold ahead of the financial crisis and follows agreements reached by Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank in late 2016.

“I am pleased that we have been able to reach a fair and proportionate settlement with the Department of Justice,” James E. Staley, the Barclays chief executive, said in a news release. “It has been a priority for this management team from the start to resolve these historic issues in a timely and appropriate manner wherever possible.”

Two former Barclays executives who were sued along with the bank also have reached settlements, agreeing to pay a combined $2 million, the Justice Department said in a news release.

Their lawyers separately said the government’s claims were baseless and each agreed to settle the case without admitting wrongdoing.

- Chad Bray

Tammy Kiely is leaving Goldman Sachs to join Morgan Stanley as global head of semiconductor and auto technology investment banking, according to an internal memo seen by The New York Times.

Ms. Kiely, who will be based in Menlo Park, Calif., joined Goldman in 1999 and had headed its semiconductor investment banking team since 2006, becoming a partner in 2014. Before Goldman, she worked at KPMG as a certified public accountant in its information, communications and entertainment practice.

She has a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the California Polytechnic State University and an M.B.A. from the Stanford University Graduate School of Business.

Following her arrival, Mark Edelstone will become chairman of global semiconductor investment banking at Morgan Stanley.

The move comes amid a wave of dealmaking among chip makers the past few years.

- Chad Bray

Revolving door

• Equifax has a new C.E.O.: the former G.E. executive Mark Begor. (NYT)

• Lior Ron, who helped found the self-driving truck company Otto, has left Uber, which acquired it. (NYT)

• A.G. Gangadhar has left G.M.’s self-driving car company, Cruise, after six months as chief technology officer. (Recode)

The Advertising Research Foundation gave Cambridge Analytica an award last year. Amid the scandal over Facebook data, it’s thinking again.

But the group’s executive, Scott McDonald, said that advertisers cared more about whether the data tech companies offered was accurate than whether they should have collected it.

Facebook, for its part, promised yesterday to stop advertisers targeting ads using data from third-party brokers, and to put its user privacy settings in one place, rather than about 20. It’s also rethinking privacy safeguards for forthcoming devices, The Information says.

Tim Cook of Apple is calling for privacy regulation: “To me, it’s creepy when I look at something and all of a sudden it’s chasing me all across the web.”

And our Kevin Roose considers how to save social media: Facebook could become more of a collective enterprise, social networks could become more like email or users could put an expiry date on information.

The tech flyaround

• Expect more deals from SoftBank’s Vision Fund. It wants to be the biggest shareholder in 100 tech companies, then consolidate them. It’s nearing a deal for a stake in Swiss Re, too.

• The German automakers BMW and Daimler have teamed up to fight Silicon Valley. (NYT)

• A Google early-stage venture fund is leading a $6 million investment in a company building software to let cars be driven remotely (by humans). (Bloomberg)

• Boeing said it had been hit by WannaCry, the malware that struck in 70 countries last year. (NYT)

• Apple facies several lawsuits from consumers for slowing older iPhones to extend battery life. (WSJ)

• Warner Music bought Sodatone, a start-up that promises to spot hits early using machine learning. (FT)

• How 5G will redraw the map of the wireless industry. (WSJ)

While finalizing its plans for trade restrictions, the Trump administration is moving ahead with a more targeted strike against Chinese investment in sensitive American technology.

But the Treasury Department faces a challenge if, as planned, it uses the 1977 International Emergency Economic Powers Act.

“Just defining what percentage of equity would classify a firm as ‘state-owned’ is difficult, as is the definition of which technologies should be off limits,” the WSJ’s Bob Davis writes. “In some cases, U.S. firms could rely on Chinese ones for innovation, especially in manufacturing.”

The political flyaround

• A lawsuit arguing that President Trump’s continued business interests violate the Constitution has passed its first test. (NYT)

• Republicans’ plan for a second tax cut before the midterm elections has yet to attract much financial support from business. (WaPo)

• Treasury bonds remain attractive to investors, but Moody’s argues that the U.S. may have less flexibility for future borrowing. (WSJ)

• An infrastructure bill passed before the midterms? Trump administration officials are trying to lower expectations. (WSJ)

• Mr. Trump declared the Second Amendment would “never be repealed,” in response to a former Supreme Court justice’s NYT Op-Ed. (NYT)

Four women sought police protection against Douglas E. Greenberg, one of Morgan Stanley’s top financial advisers.

Executives at the bank knew about his behavior, former employees said, but no action was taken until the NYT raised the issue this week.

The bank’s wealth-management division accounts for nearly half Morgan Stanley’s revenue and is seen as its prime source of future profits.

With an aging and declining population in Japan, companies have to look elsewhere to grow. Takeda Pharmaceuticals’ potential bid for Shire could be one of the largest acquisitions ever of a Western company by a Japanese buyer.

Critics’ corner: It’s not really about cost savings, argues Bloomberg Gadfly’s Chris Hughes: “In reality, the attraction is that Shire is cheap and vulnerable — something other bidders will see.” And the FT’s Lex would welcome that: “There are better potential matches.”

 AT&T-Time Warner trial update: The head of Turner broadcasting said that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through. The judge overseeing the case told the parties to speed up their presentation. And if the deal isn’t completed by Apr. 22, it may cost AT&T  up to $1.1 billion in special redemptions.

The deals flyaround

• Concho Resources will buy RSP Permian for $9.5 billion, creating a shale-oil colossus and adding to the rush to produce more oil. (NYT)

• Renault and Nissan are in talks to merge, unnamed sources said. (Bloomberg)

• Vivendi and Elliott Management are tussling over Telecom Italia. (FT)

• Stella McCartney has agreed to buy Kering out of her fashion brand, regaining full control. (NYT)

• CME Group has offered to buy NEX Group, which operates bond-trading platforms, for $5.4 billion. (WSJ)

• The defense contractor CACI International has withdraw its bid for CSRA, which offers information technology services to government agencies and now looks likely to be acquired by General Dynamics. (WaPo)

• Silver Lake is taking a $500 million stake in the online personal finance company Credit Karma. (WSJ)

• The technology company DocuSign, not yet profitable, has filed for an I.P.O. (WSJ)

• Anbang, the insurer seized by the Chinese government, is continuing to offer the small-investor products that fueled its growth. (NYT)

• The economics of home buying are getting interesting, with higher mortgage rates, tax changes and a supply-demand imbalance. (NYT)

• Wells Fargo is taking a measured approach to the gun debate, its chief executive, Tim Sloan, said — but does not believe a bank can be an “arbiter of what an American can buy.” (Charlotte Observer)

• Bumble is suing Match Group, which owns Tinder, accusing it of stealing trade secrets and interfering in Bumble’s business. (Recode)

• Deutsche Bank is considering more cuts in its investment bank, unnamed sources say, while its chief executive, John Cryan, has insisted that he’s staying. (Bloomberg)

• The Wing, a members’ club for women, is being investigated by New York authorities for discrimination. (NYT)

• The C.F.T.C. chairman, J. Christopher Giancarlo, has become a Twitter star — complete with a nickname, “Cryptodad” — over his digital currency views. (Bloomberg)

• Investors who lost money on the blood-testing firm Theranos may end up fighting the S.E.C. over its assets. (Bloomberg)

Know someone who would enjoy this newsletter? Tell them to sign up here.

You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

Madison Avenue may be the center of the advertising industry, but Silicon Valley is home to the most valuable brands.

For the third consecutive year, Apple and Google top the annual Interbrand Best Global Brands report.

The report, which is to be released on Monday, estimates the value of the Apple brand at $170.3 billion, up 43 percent from last year. The Google brand, at $120.3 billion, increased in value by 12 percent. (The value of Facebook’s brand, ranked No. 23, increased 54 percent to $22 billion, the highest percentage increase from last year’s report.)

As data and technology continue to reshape advertising, the creative side of the business has been trying to keep pace. Changes in how ads are bought and sold — along with the ability to target consumers based on their preferences, behavior and other online data — have forced the advertising industry to re-examine marketing fundamentals, including branding.

During the 12th annual Advertising Week conference last week in New York, there was a focus on the power of brands. One event, “Do Brands Still Matter?” — which featured leaders from Coca-Cola, Facebook and the agency Ogilvy and Mather — seemed in particular to underscore the creative industry’s insecurity.

Jez Frampton, the global chief executive of Interbrand, says brands still matter.

“Nowadays, in order to succeed in any marketplace, you not only have to have a great business idea, you have to have a great brand,” Mr. Frampton said in a recent interview.

The technology industry dominated the Interbrand list this year, representing more than one-third of the report’s overall value. Including No. 1 Apple and No. 2 Google, technology brands filled four of the report’s top 10 spots. Microsoft climbed a notch to No. 4, bumping IBM to No. 5; Samsung remained at No. 7. Interbrand classifies IBM as a business services brand, and Amazon, at No. 10, as a retail brand.

“All the brands in the top are there for a very good reason,” Mr. Frampton said. “They’ve either transformed or made better how we live our lives.”

Rounding out the top 10 were Coca-Cola, at No. 3; Toyota, at No. 6; General Electric, at No. 8; and McDonald’s, at No. 9.

Interbrand determines the rankings and brand valuations using factors that include how much revenue a company earns from a branded product, how big a role a brand plays in influencing its consumers’ decisions and brand loyalty.

Other notable brands on this year’s list include the German automaker Volkswagen, which dropped to No. 35 from No. 31 and lost 9 percent of its value. Volkswagen recently admitted that it sold 11 million cars equipped with devices programmed to cheat on emissions tests. Its ranking reflects sentiment after the scandal.

Lenovo squeaked into the report for the first time, at No. 100, becoming the second Chinese brand to make the list after Huawei, a phone maker, appeared last year.

Other new entrants include Lego, PayPal, Mini and the Champagne brand Moët & Chandon.

Pizza Hut, Gap, Nokia, Nintendo and Duracell fell out of the top 100.