I recently switched jobs and have been training to use a complicated new computer system. The young woman helping me is terrific: kind, innovative and bright. While training, I learned that she was a teen mom and lifted herself from difficult circumstances. She is interviewing very soon for a better position in the company. But I’ve noticed that her grammar is occasionally poor, and I fear it may hold her back. Could I say something to her? She’s never asked for my advice, but we’ve talked about our desire for advancement.

ANONYMOUS

Assuming “interviewing very soon” means … well, very soon, I picture an interaction like so: “Denise, you’re terrific, but your grammar stinks. Now, get into that interview room and knock ’em dead!” You have just enough time to destabilize her, but not enough to teach her subject-verb agreement. Let’s try a different tack.

Write to the human-resources department, or whomever your co-worker is interviewing with, and praise her to the heavens. If she’s the Stephen Sondheim of computer trainers, let the gods of advancement know. Be specific about her ingenuity and underscore her drive to grow. (But leave out the “teen mom” business; she probably told you that in friendly confidence.)

Then, wait and see. She may get the job — bad grammar and all. But if she doesn’t, and you find yourself kibitzing with her again about career advancement, I hereby suspend my rule about not giving advice to people who haven’t asked for it (because usually, it just hurts their feelings without doing much good) and allow you a gentle step in that direction. “Denise, you are so talented. If you spiffed up your grammar, there’d be no stopping you.” If she takes the bait, suggest an adult education class. But if she doesn’t, let it go, O.K.?

I am a gay guy who rarely uses hookup apps. So I was pretty shocked when my sister’s boyfriend turned up at my place via Scruff. Our faces are sort of hidden in our profiles. He begged me not to tell my sister. I want to be straight with her, but I’d hate to “out” someone. What do you think?

JAY

One word for you, Jay: sister! Of course you’re going to tell her. Sharing the same womb trumps the shaded complexity of outing. And you are not going to date this guy, either — even though your story has all the makings of a cheesy rom-com I’d definitely watch on Netflix. Are we clear?

I am an avid gardener and keep our small yard in top shape. I find it soothing after my busy weeks as a high school teacher and dad to two young girls. Our neighbor knocked on our door and asked me not to use the leaf blower on Sundays. He said it is his only day to rest and doesn’t want to hear my “noise pollution.” I was taken aback but told him I would think about it. Outrageous, right?

ROBERT

Before we get to your loathsome leaf blower, let me pay you a sincere compliment: If more people responded as you did (“Let me think about it”) when they felt aggravated by the demands of others, civility would increase exponentially. Just take a beat and respond later when you’re cooler headed. Well done, Robert!

Now, when I hear “avid gardener,” I picture someone weeding the pachysandra beds quietly or deadheading the roses — not operating machinery that requires ear-protecting headsets like people wear at rifle ranges. Assuming there are no local laws or community rules on the subject (which many places have), you are technically free to blow at will. But in the interest of neighborliness, can’t you find a compromise: an hour on Saturday or late Sunday afternoon? Small gestures foster great good will. And you never know when you may need to borrow this guy’s cherry picker.

My 30-year-old son is vegan. My wife (his stepmother) tries to accommodate him at family meals. But he often complains to me privately that her vegan dishes are bland. And my wife makes not-so-subtle swipes at the table about the extra work. This week, my son emailed me to ask if it would offend my wife if he brought some dishes to Thanksgiving. He added that her vegan offerings were limited last year. My wife saw the email and flipped her tofu. How should I handle this?

TOM

Something tells me — O.K., it’s the nasty two-way sniping — that food is not the culprit here. Tell your son, privately, that he should be a more gracious guest. More important, tell him that your wife reads your emails. (He has an expectation of privacy when writing to you directly.) Next, inform your wife that passive-aggressive zingers about slaving in the kitchen do not flatter any host. Then arrange for your son to bring a few vegan options to supplement your wife’s undoubtedly delicious meal. In our world of special diets and food allergies, do a few extra tempeh tacos really matter?

Google and Facebook, the world’s biggest sellers of online advertising, faced sharp criticism on Friday for allowing advertisers to direct ads to users who searched for or expressed an interest in racist sentiments and hate speech.

In response to two separate news reports exposing the issues, both companies said they would change how their systems worked.

The criticism began on Thursday after a report from ProPublica, a nonprofit news site, revealed that Facebook enabled advertisers to seek out self-described “Jew haters” and other anti-Semitic topics. The company responded by saying that it would restrict how advertisers targeted their audiences on the social network.

On Friday, an article from BuzzFeed reported how Google allowed the sale of ads tied to racist and bigoted keywords, and automatically suggested more offensive terms as part of that process. By midday, Google said it would work harder to halt offensive ads.

The incidents added to a growing awareness of the complicated — and powerful — automated advertising systems that have turned Facebook and Google into two of the world’s most valuable companies. The companies have learned how to maximize their ability to connect any size of advertiser to highly tailored groups of people who use their services every day, collecting billions of dollars in the process.

But the potential misuse of those tools has become a national concern in the past year, particularly after Facebook disclosed last week that fake accounts based in Russia had purchased more than $100,000 worth of ads on divisive issues in the lead-up to the presidential election.

“It’s shocking because it’s illustrating the degree of targeting that’s possible,” said Eli Pariser, the author of “The Filter Bubble: How the New Personalized Web Is Changing What We Read and How We Think.” “But I think the critical piece of context is this is happening when we know that a foreign country used targeted Facebook ads to influence opinion around an election.”

He added: “Before all of this, you could see the rise of targeted advertising, you could see the rise of social politics, but the conjunction of the two in this way feels new.”

Facebook’s self-service ad-buying platform allowed advertisers to direct ads to the news feeds of about 2,300 people who said they were interested in anti-Semitic subjects, according to the article by ProPublica. Facebook’s algorithms automatically generated the categories from users’ profiles.

Reporters from ProPublica tested Facebook advertising categories to see whether they could buy ads aimed at people who expressed interest in topics like “Jew hater,” “How to burn jews,” and “History of ‘why jews ruin the world.’” The reporters paid $30 to promote ProPublica posts to the people affiliated with the anti-Semitic categories to ensure they were real options, according to the investigation, which noted that Facebook had approved the posts within 15 minutes.

Facebook said in a statement that users had entered the terms under the “employer” or “education” fields on their profiles. Doing so violated the company’s policies, the company said, and led to their appearance on the ad-buying tool.

The company said it would remove targeting by such self-reported fields “until we have the right processes in place to help prevent this issue.” It added that “hate speech and discriminatory advertising have no place on our platform.”

After the ProPublica report, BuzzFeed conducted a similar test on Google, where ads are purchased based on potential search terms. The site reported that upon entering terms like “why do Jews ruin everything” and “white people ruin,” the automated system suggested long lists of offensive “keyword ideas” like “black people ruin neighborhoods” and “Jewish parasites.” It then allowed the purchase of some of the terms for ads.

Google said that it informed advertisers when their ads were offensive and rejected, and that not all suggested keywords were eligible for purchase.

“In this instance, ads didn’t run against the vast majority of these keywords, but we didn’t catch all these offensive suggestions,” Sridhar Ramaswamy, Google’s senior vice president of ads, said in a statement. “That’s not good enough, and we’re not making excuses. We’ve already turned off these suggestions, and any ads that made it through, and will work harder to stop this from happening again.”

The Daily Beast noted on Friday that Twitter was also allowing people to target ads based on some racial slurs. But the greater scrutiny is on Facebook and Google, given their sheer size and dominance of the online advertising business, which brings each company tens of billions of dollars in revenue a year.

Last week, Facebook representatives briefed the Senate and House Intelligence Committees, which are investigating Russian intervention in the election, about ads on the site. The company told congressional investigators that it had identified more than $100,000 worth of ads on hot-button issues that were traced back to a Russian company with links to the Kremlin.

The ads — about 3,000 of them — focused on divisive topics like gay rights, gun control, race and immigration, and they were linked to 470 fake accounts and pages that Facebook subsequently took down, according to its chief security officer. Facebook has not released copies of the ads to the public.

Last fall, Facebook came under fire  after ProPublica reported that advertisers could use its targeting to exclude certain races, or what the social network called “ethnic affinities,” from housing and employment ads, a potential violation of the Fair Housing Act of 1968 and the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Facebook, which assigns the updated term “multicultural affinity” to certain users based on their interests and activities on the site, no longer allows it to be used in ads for housing, employment or credit.

These series of problems with advertising make the company look unprepared to handle the power of its ad system, said Benjamin Edelman, an associate professor at Harvard Business School.

“They’ve created a very complicated ad platform — it has all kinds of options and doodads and things working automatically and manually, and they don’t know what they built,” Professor Edelman said. “The machine has a mind of its own.”

Mr. Pariser said the types of targeting reported this week made a strong argument for increased disclosure of the funding behind political ads online, especially on Facebook. The Federal Election Commission voted on Thursday to seek public comment on disclosure requirements around online political ads, which advocates hope will lead to rules requiring more disclaimers revealing who paid for online content.

“This is drawing a new level of public awareness to how targeted advertising can be used to manipulate and affect politics and political conversation in ways that didn’t used to be feasible at all or easy,” Mr. Pariser said.

Facebook faced criticism on Wednesday after an analyst pointed out that the company’s online advertising tools claim they can reach 25 million more young Americans than the United States census says exist.

The analyst, Brian Wieser at Pivotal Research, said in a note Tuesday that Facebook’s Ads Manager says it can potentially reach 41 million 18- to 24-year-olds in the United States and 60 million 25- to 34-year-olds. The catch, according to Mr. Wieser: the census counted just 31 million 18-to-24-year-olds last year and 45 million 25-to-34-year-olds.

“The buyers and marketers I talked to were unaware of this and they are using it for planning purposes,” Mr. Wieser said in an interview. “Buyers are still going to buy from them and plan for them, but this is something that doesn’t need to be an error and puts every other metric they might provide into question.”

The criticism over audience figures comes as Facebook disclosed on Wednesday that hundreds of fake accounts apparently based in Russia had purchased $100,000 worth of political advertising during the American presidential election last year; the tech firm said it had shut down the accounts.

The census figure discrepancy is likely to be a setback for Facebook with advertisers and a boon for outside measurement companies like Nielsen and ComScore, particularly as Facebook vies to make video advertising a bigger part of its business, Mr. Wieser said. Mr. Wieser is one of two analysts with a “sell” rating on Facebook shares, compared to 42 “buy” recommendations and three “hold” ratings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.

Facebook said on Wednesday that the numbers are not designed to match census and population estimates, noting its figures are self-reported by users and include non-residents. The estimates are based on “Facebook user behaviors, user demographics, location data from devices, and other factors,” the company said in a statement. “They are designed to estimate how many people in a given area are eligible to see an ad a business might run.”

The mismatch is significant because the 18- to 34-year-old demographic is the most lucrative for marketers, and one that Facebook promotes given the group’s broader trend toward cord-cutting and ad-blocking. Linda Yaccarino, the head of advertising sales for NBCUniversal, shared a screenshot of Mr. Wieser’s note on Twitter, remarking, “If my kid distorted the facts like this on her college thesis, she’d be expelled.”

Over the last year, Facebook has disclosed a host of measurement errors around how long and how often people watch videos and read articles on the site. The issues can have major ramifications for how publishers and advertisers allocate their marketing budgets. The disclosures have spurred an industrywide conversation about how major technology companies like Facebook are measuring their audiences, particularly as they compete aggressively with television, and whether third-party measurement companies should be used to avoid potential conflicts.

Facebook said earlier this year that it would agree to an audit of information it provides to marketers through the nonprofit Media Rating Council, and it has offered new tools for marketers to gauge the visibility and success of ads.

This latest flare-up underscores why publishers and ad agencies have been pushing for more accountability and oversight of tech companies like Facebook and Google by outside companies, said Jason Kint, the chief executive of Digital Content Next, an online publishing industry group.

“This isn’t just a small media company or small seller of advertising that has a gap in their numbers,” Mr. Kint said. “This is one half of what we call the duopoly that’s capturing most of the growth in the media industry. There is absolutely a necessity for them to be held in check regarding the rest of the industry and independent bodies to make sure they’re delivering on what they say they’re delivering on.”

SHANGHAI — Facebook and many of its apps have been blocked in China for years. To change that, Mark Zuckerberg has made a big point of meeting with Chinese politicians, reading stodgy Communist Party propaganda, studying Mandarin and — perhaps more daunting — speaking it in public.

Now the social network is trying a different way into China: by authorizing the release of a new app there that does not carry the Facebook name.

Facebook approved the May debut of a photo-sharing app, called Colorful Balloons, in China, according to a person with knowledge of the company’s plans, who declined to be named because the information is politically sensitive. The app, which has not previously been reported, shares the look, function and feel of Facebook’s Moments app. It was released through a separate local company and without any hint that the social network is affiliated with it.

The stealthy and anonymous release of an app by a major foreign technology company in China is unprecedented. It shows the desperation — and frustration — of global tech companies as they try to break into the world’s largest online market. It also underscores the lengths they are willing to go, and their increasing acceptance of the idea that standards for operating in China are different from elsewhere.

China’s internet censorship — which includes making some news websites inaccessible and passing rules that result in app removals — has left big players like Facebook and Google on the sidelines of a major boom there. The country boasts an audience of more than 700 million internet users who buy $750 billion of stuff online a year, but they are served by local tech companies that have developed their own way of doing business that can seem exotic to Silicon Valley.

Facebook hopes it can learn and potentially assimilate those ways. Yet the social network was banned in China in 2009, followed by its photo-sharing app Instagram in 2014, and its messaging app WhatsApp was partially blocked last month. While the company has more than two billion users around the world, Mr. Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, has often asked where its next billion users will come from.

Now Colorful Balloons gives the Silicon Valley company a way to see how Chinese users digitally share information with their friends or interact with their favorite social media platforms.

“We have long said that we are interested in China, and are spending time understanding and learning more about the country in different ways,” Facebook said in a statement.

It is unclear whether China’s various internet regulators were aware of the app’s existence. The under-the-table approach could cause Facebook new difficulties with a Chinese government that has maintained strict oversight and control over foreign tech companies.

“It’s not a mere business thing,” said Teng Bingsheng, a professor of strategic management at Cheung Kong Graduate School of Business. “It’s politics.”

The Cyberspace Administration of China did not respond to a faxed request for comment.

Before the release of Colorful Balloons, Facebook had taken an unusually high-profile approach to courting China.

Mr. Zuckerberg had paid a series of visits to the country in recent years and become something of a celebrity there. Videos of him speaking Mandarin have gone viral, as did a photo of him jogging on a dangerously smoggy day through Tiananmen Square in Beijing.

Colorful Balloons represents the opposite approach — one that is low profile.

The app was released in China by a company called Youge Internet Technology, according to a post in Apple’s app store. It is registered to an address in eastern Beijing, yet the room number listed in company registration documents could not be found amid a series of shabby, small offices on the building’s fourth floor.

According to the documents, Youge’s executive director is a woman named Zhang Jingmei. She appeared in a photo of a recent meeting between Facebook and the Shanghai government, sitting next to Wang-Li Moser, a Facebook executive whose responsibilities include building up the company’s relationship with the Chinese government. Ms. Zhang’s presence at such a high-level meeting indicated she is likely a Facebook adviser or employee.

Facebook declined to comment on Ms. Zhang’s relationship to the company, and Ms. Zhang did not respond to phone calls requesting comment.

If Facebook did little to promote Colorful Balloons in China, it did work to tailor the app to a local audience. In the rest of the world, the company’s Moments app connects users through Facebook. Colorful Balloons instead links users through China’s biggest social network, WeChat.

The app, which is designed to collate photos from a smartphone’s photo albums and then share them, does so in China with the use of a QR code, a sort of bar code that is widely used by WeChat and other apps in the country.

While photos can be shared, Facebook appears to have taken steps to ensure the app could not spread widely. For example, people who post photos from Colorful Balloons on WeChat will see a link that lets other users download Facebook’s Chinese app. But the link does not work, meaning people have to seek out Colorful Balloons in an app store instead of grabbing it from their friends, which may limit its distribution.

The risk Facebook is taking with the new app is high. The company appears to have handed over a fully functioning product to Youge for release, and has done so without indicating in any public way that it is connected to Facebook. Coming just ahead of a key meeting of the Chinese Communist Party this autumn, the secretive release of Colorful Balloons could also undermine trust between the company and the Chinese government.

Such tactics underline the degree to which Facebook is willing to experiment and break precedent to get into China. Last year, The New York Times reported Facebook had also quietly been at work on a censorship tool that could be used on a version of the social network in a place like China, where the government demands control over what is shared. The tool could suppress posts from appearing in people’s news feeds in specific geographic areas.

Yet even if Facebook is able to use Colorful Balloons to keep up with the Chinese market, a recent intense internet crackdown in China suggests the political winds may not soon blow in favor of the company further entering the country.

Mr. Zuckerberg’s attention to China also appears to have waned. And China’s former internet czar, Lu Wei, who had visited Facebook’s offices in 2014, has been removed from his position, making things harder for the company.

“The government’s control and surveillance of media is strict, and it is almost impossible for them to open that door,” said Mr. Teng, the Cheung Kong professor. “Although Mark Zuckerberg has visited China many times and practiced his Chinese very hard, I don’t foresee any major breakthroughs for Facebook.”