(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)

Good evening. Here’s the latest.

1. “Mr. President, are you a racist?”

That was the question shouted by a reporter after President Trump signed a proclamation honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. at the White House.

Mr. Trump ignored it. In an earlier tweet, he vaguely denied calling Haiti and African nations “shithole countries” during a meeting with lawmakers on immigration.

But Senator Richard Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, who was at the meeting on Thursday, insisted that the president did use the term.

____

2. Leaders across the African continent condemned President Trump’s remarks. On social media, Africans shared pictures of beautiful beaches, tree-lined streets and glamorous tourist resorts captioned with the insult.

Haiti’s ambassador to Washington said it was distressing that the uproar came on the eighth anniversary of the 2010 earthquake, which killed about 220,000 people on the island. Above, a memorial.

Today on “The Daily,” we discuss the immigration proposal that prompted the president’s comments.

____

3. The Wall Street Journal reported that a lawyer for President Trump arranged a $130,000 payout to a former star of pornographic movies, Stephanie Clifford, above, who performed under the name Stormy Daniels.

The payment was made a month before the election to keep her from discussing a sexual encounter she claimed she had with Mr. Trump in 2006, The Journal reported. The White House denied the claim.

In other White House news, Mr. Trump canceled a visit to London to dedicate the new U.S. embassy. The news was welcomed by his many critics there.

And the president again stopped short of imposing sanctions on Iran that could end the nuclear deal. But he set a 120-day deadline to overhaul the agreement.

____

4. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan may skip the opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics in South Korea as tensions flare anew over World War II-era “comfort women.”

The term refers to women forced into sexual slavery for the Japanese military. As part of a 2015 settlement, Japan apologized and vowed to provide millions in funding for survivors.

But the new South Korean president, Moon Jae-in, has pledged to review the deal. Above, in Seoul, mascots for the Games.

____

5. “We can’t find Mom.” We’re learning the identities of some of the California residents killed in this week’s sudden, intense mudslides.

Montecito, northwest of Los Angeles, had been hardest hit by last month’s wildfires, leaving the land stripped and vulnerable.

The mudslides killed 17 people there, and as many as 43 people are still missing. These photos show the devastation.

____

6. Mark Zuckerberg spoke to us about sweeping changes being made to Facebook’s News Feed.

“We want to make sure that our products are not just fun but are good for people,” said Mr. Zuckerberg, the company’s founder. “We need to refocus the system.”

If you’re among the network’s more than two billion users, expect to see fewer viral videos and news articles in the coming weeks, and more posts that include interactions between you and the people you know.

____

7. And now, a little escapism: Come with us on a tour of one of America’s last pencil factories.

These mesmerizing photos by Christopher Payne show the inner workings of the General Pencil Company in New Jersey, which has been in the business since 1889. He visited the factory dozens of times over the past few years, documenting every phase of the manufacturing process.

The images “preserve the secret origins of objects we tend to take for granted.”

____

8. Our movie critic loved the new live-action children’s film “Paddington 2.”

The film finds the beloved bear in London, where he comes across a pop-up book filled with illustrations of the city’s landmarks. He wants to send it to Peru as a birthday present for his aunt Lucy, but a dastardly villain gets in his way.

The director Paul King and his team of actors and animators “spin good writing and seamless digital effects into Rococo children’s entertainment,” our critic writes.

____

9. The head of our Cooking team, Sam Sifton, has some ideas about what to cook this weekend.

In his latest newsletter, he has links to a diverse array of dishes, from hippie tofu, above, to homemade pizza.

____

10. Finally, sometimes it seems as if we’re living under a constant barrage of heavy news.

But it isn’t all bad out there. This week’s roundup of good news includes a figure skater who loves Winnie the Pooh (that’s Yuzuru Hanyu of Japan, above), winter heroes and baby turtles.

Have a great weekend.

____

Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.

And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing, posted weekdays at 6 a.m. Eastern, and Your Weekend Briefing, posted at 6 a.m. Sundays.

Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.

If photographs appear out of order, please download the updated New York Times app from iTunes or Google Play.

What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.

 Good Friday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• One of bitcoin’s biggest champion has had a change of heart.

• Prosecutors are said to be seeking Kushner records from Deutsche Bank.

• Add BofA to the list of companies passing along some of their tax windfall to employees.

• A bad day for Bitcoin, just as more people are trying to pile in.

• AT&T and Time Warner change the deadline for their $85.4 billion deal.

Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.

A note to readers: This is the last DealBook Briefing for 2017. Thanks for reading and for your feedback — we’ve appreciated every single comment and email. We’ll have more in store when we return on Jan. 2. Happy holidays!

Michael Novogratz, the former Fortress executive, told Bloomberg that he was shelving plans for a cryptocurrency hedge fund and said Bitcoin will fall to $8,000.

Mr. Novogratz’s Galaxy Digital Assets Fund was due to start on Dec. 15.

Bitcoin has fallen more than 40 percent the past four days. It hit a low of $10,776 Friday, down from $19,511 on Monday. The digital currency has since rebounded from its low and was recently at $13,268.

Ben Protess, Jessica Silver-Greenberg and David Enrich of the NYT report that Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn have sought bank records about entities associated with the family company of Jared Kushner.

Click here to read the full story.

The WSJ is reporting that Bank of America is handing out $1,000 bonuses to about 145,000 employees who earn up to $150,000.

President Trump signed the tax bill into law Friday. Since Wednesday when the bill passed Congress, a growing list of companies have announced plans to pass some of their tax windfall to employees.

AT&T and Comcast both will pay a $1,000 bonus to most of their workers in the United States.

Wells Fargo, PNC Financial and Fifth Third are raising their minimum wage to $15. Fifth Third will give $1,000 bonuses to 13,500 of its 18,000 workers, while PNC Financial will pay $1,000 bonuses to about 47,500 employees.

Boeing said it will spend $300 million on employee training, workplace infrastructure, and corporate giving.

Some context on these moves from Breakingviews: 

Bitcoin is down more than 30 percent and is approaching $10,000. The biggest cryptocurrency traded at a high of $19,511 on Monday. The selling has spilled over to other digital currencies. Ethereum and litecoin are off more than 35 percent.

Such tumbles are hardly unusual for bitcoin, which is still up more than 1,300 percent this year.

But the decline has some asking if the top is in. Here are some comments from around the web:

Neil Wilson, ETX Capital, courtesy of MarketWatch: “Has the bubble finally popped? It’s hard to see the bell tolling just yet. We can easily see this market bounce back in very short order. Whilst there have been some hacks, public infighting in the mining community, lots of rumored forks and regulatory pressure building on some fronts, this is likely to be a simple bout of risk-off selling as investors rebalance towards year-end.”

Ross Norman, Sharps Pixley, courtesy of Bloomberg: “The sharks are beginning to circle here, and the futures markets may give them a venue to strike. Bitcoin’s been heavily driven by retail investors, but there’ll be some aggressive funds looking for the right opportunity to hammer this thing lower.”

Michael Jackson, Mangrove Capital Partners, courtesy of CNBC: “The vast majority of long term holders of bitcoin are still way in the money and have shown no sign of cashing out.”

Where Bitcoin was on Sunday: $19,511

Where Bitcoin is this morning: $13,577

What Stephen Innes, the head of Asia-Pacific trading for Oannes, told Richard Frost and Eric Lam of Bloomberg:

What does a top look like?

Maybe like a host of companies rebranding themselves as having something to do with digital currency or blockchain technology. What gained a huge amount of attention yesterday, of course, was the beverage maker Long Island Iced Tea Corp. announcing that it was changing its name to Long Blockchain Corp. and pivoting to virtual money. (It will still maintain a beverage division, of course.)

What happened was predictable:

But maybe we’re not at a top. Shane Chanel, a wealth adviser at ASR Wealth Advisers, told CNN Money that investors may just pile into other digital currencies, adding, “I feel the cryptocurrency madness is only beginning.”

Goldman Sachs is jumping in

The firm is opening a digital currency trading desk, according to Bloomberg. The firm already clears Bitcoin futures, one of the few banks on Wall Street to do so.

Speaking of a Wall Street firm getting into Bitcoin, who said this late last month?

Michel Temer, the president of Brazil, said the government would oppose the sale of a controlling stake in aircraft maker Embraer.

Mr. Temer told reporters:

Boeing and Embraer said Thursday that they are discussing potential business combinations after The Wall Street Journal reported the two were in takeover talks. A deal that gave Boeing control of Embraer, a crown jewel of Brazilian industry, would need government approval. From The WSJ:

The companies now have until June 21 to complete their $85.4 billion transaction, according to a court filing.

They pushed the deadline back after a trial date was set for the Justice Department’s lawsuit to block the deal. The court hearings will begin on March 19, which wouldn’t give the two enough time to complete their transaction before the previous deadline of April 22.

— Michael J. de la Merced

Who didn’t see this coming? From the Qualcomm news release:

Expect a lot more fighting between now and March 6, when Qualcomm is scheduled to hold its annual shareholder meeting.

— Michael J. de la Merced

Eric Schmidt was more than the adult in the room during the early days of Google. He was the technology giant’s person in Washington, Brussels and Beijing. But does his departure as executive chairman next month mean that his services are no longer vital?

It comes as Alphabet, now Google’s parent company, and other tech giants need friends in political capitals around the world — and Mr. Schmidt’s connections to previous administrations like the Obama White House may not be as useful.

From Dai Wakabayashi, Katie Benner and Claire Miller of the NYT:

The personal angle

There was no mention in Google’s announcement about why Mr. Schmidt left. But one issue that has hung in the air is the executive’s well-known personal life — including the bringing of girlfriends to corporate events, the World Economic Forum in Davos and other occasions.

The Information reported recently on how the hiring of Marcy Simon, a marketing expert who was in a relationship with Mr. Schmidt, at the company’s Android division caused some consternation in the unit.

Critics’ corner

• Shira Ovide writes, “Google isn’t in desperate need of more adults. But the rest of the technology industry might be.” (Gadfly)

• Jennifer Saba writes, “Hiring a strong, independent chairwoman would reflect well on co-founders and controlling shareholders Larry Page and Sergey Brin in more ways than one.” (Breakingviews)

Or, put another way, government funding has been extended until Jan. 19. The deadline was today.

Yesterday’s votes in Congress to prevent a shutdown prevented Republicans from suffering an embarrassment so soon after passing their tax overhaul. But here’s what will confront lawmakers when they return to Washington next month:

• What to do about the young immigrants known as Dreamers

• Long-term funding for the Children’s Health Insurance Program beyond March

• The future of the warrantless wiretap program run by the N.S.A. and the F.B.I.

The Washington flyaround

• Conservative groups plan to spend millions on advertising extolling what they view as the benefits of the Republican tax cuts to a deeply skeptical public. (Politico, NYT)

• Republicans are scrambling to address political weaknesses ahead the 2018 midterm elections — and that led to a loud dispute at the White House this week. (Politico, NYT)

• A federal judge dismissed a lawsuit accusing President Trump of violating the Constitution by continuing to own and profit from his business empire, arguing that the plaintiffs didn’t have legal standing. (NYT)

• The bonuses that AT&T is paying employees because of the tax bill appear auspiciously timed: Under the current tax code, they amount to a $70 million deduction for the expense, while the deduction would be $42 million under the new tax rates. (WSJ)

• Ford’s C.E.O., Jim Hackett, publicly apologized for nearly three decades’ worth of harassment by employees at two Chicago plants, an issue that was the subject of a recent NYT investigation. (NYT)

• Six symphonies have cut ties to the famed classical music conductor Charles Dutoit after four women accused him of sexual assault. (AP)

• Major League Baseball had pushed out Bob Bowman, the longtime head of the league’s former digital platform, after knowing about accusations of dating subordinates and shoving and verbally abusing colleagues. (WSJ)

Sure, the iPhone maker’s shares have jumped this year, pushing its market value into uncharted territory above $900 billion. How long can the tech giant continue to breathe that rarefied air?

Putting Apple’s market cap into context

Courtesy of Jeff Sommer and Karl Russell of the NYT:

• When adjusted for inflation, Apple’s market capitalization just recently surpassed Microsoft’s record high. At the heights of the dot-com bubble in 1999, Microsoft’s market capitalization peaked at $647 billion.

• Apple’s share of the total stock market doesn’t even rank in the top 20, going back to 1925.

Is Apple doing better in China?

Morgan Stanley says that the iPhone X is helping stanch the flow of customers defecting from Apple to makers of cheaper smartphones. In a research note, the bank said that Apple has a 57 percent retention rate among iPhone users when they upgrade. That’s 20 percentage points higher than any other brand in China.

Why is the country important to Apple? It accounted for nearly 20 percent of iPhone sales last quarter — and the iPhone accounts for more than 55 percent of Apple’s sales during that time.

The battery controversy

Yes, Apple is slowing down the performance of older iPhones. No, it’s not meant to force customers into buying newer models, it says.

The tech flyaround

• Facebook signed a deal with Universal Music Group that lets its platforms carry songs from the music label’s artists, settling a long-running dispute. (Bloomberg)

• Qualcomm has gotten a permit to test self-driving cars on public roads in California. (CNBC)

• We knew Furbys were trouble: The latest model, as well as other toys, could be vulnerable to hackers and identity thieves. (NYT)

• Boeing is seeking to buy the Brazilian aircraft maker Embraer to try to gain a bigger foothold in the regional jet market — but is awaiting the blessing of Brazil’s government. Separately, a former Embraer executive pleaded guilty to U.S. charges of bribing a Saudi Aramco official to secure a sale. (WSJ, Reuters)

• Liberty Global agreed to sell its Austrian unit to Deutsche Telekom for 1.9 billion euros, or $2.25 billion, potentially helping set up a bigger deal with Vodafone down the road. (Reuters, FT)

• Roche agreed to buy Ignyta, a maker of an experimental cancer treatment, for $1.7 billion. (Bloomberg)

• Royal Dutch Shell has agreed to buy First Utility, a British-based electricity provider, for an undisclosed amount to expand its non-oil business. (NYT)

• Mark Ein, a Washington-based investor, said that he would buy the Washington City Paper after its current owner put the independent newspaper up for sale. (Washington City Paper)

It did so by completing transactions with the controversy-ridden Malaysian government investment fund that have now gotten the attention of the Swiss financial regulator Finma.

The Swiss agency will install a person inside the bank to review its money-laundering policies, “given the inadequacy of the bank’s controls.” JPMorgan said that the activity had taken place years ago, and that the firm has since improved its staff training and surveillance operations.

Potential more scrutiny ahead: Finma said it had referred to case to the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

U.S. lawmakers are calling for increased scrutiny of the Chinese conglomerate from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or Cfius, the WSJ reports.

The Treasury Department, the Justice Department and the Defense Department have endorsed a bill that would make it easier for Cfius to reinvestigate past foreign deals.

In HNA fund-raising news: The conglomerate pledged part of its stake in Postal Savings Bank of China to borrow money as concerns about its debt load have started to weigh on its finances. And it still does not have approval to buy a controlling stake in SkyBridge Capital, Anthony Scaramucci’s investment firm.

• John Schnatter, who blamed the N.F.L.’s handling of the national anthem controversy for Papa’s John’s declining sales, will step down as chief executive. (NYT)

• Vince McMahon, the chairman and chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, filed details with the S.E.C. of a sale of $100 million of shares to fund an exploration of opportunities in other sports, including football. (ESPN)

• MetLife hired a law firm to investigate how it failed find and pay pension benefits to thousands of people. It said it would hire a specialty firm to locate these people. (WSJ)

• AC Milan, the city’s oldest football club, is struggling to find investors willing to refinance its more than $300 million in high-interest loans from Elliott Management. (FT)

• Timing is of the essence when making stock donations, as Michael Milken, the former junk-bond financier knows after two gifts to charity just before the shares plunged in value. (WSJ)

• The online gambling company, GVC, will buy the British bookmaker Ladbrokes Coral in a deal worth as much as 4 billion pounds, or nearly $5.4 billion. (Sky)

• UBS has to pay $903,300 to one of its former senior strategists who accused it of illegally firing him for blowing the whistle on attempts by commercial mortgage-backed securities traders to influence his independent research reports. (Bloomberg)

• More American universities than ever are sitting on endowments worth at least $1 billion, helped by heavy investments in stocks. (Bloomberg)

We’d love your feedback as we experiment with the writing, format and design of this briefing. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

SAN FRANCISCO —  Google is quickly becoming the company government regulators around the world love to investigate.

The Silicon Valley giant’s latest problems come from India. Last week, after a three-year investigation, India’s antitrust authority, echoing similar complaints in Europe, sent Google a report outlining its concerns about search dominance and anticompetitive behavior.

The report from the investigative arm of the Competition Commission of India, citing the company’s size and financial heft, argued that Google was abusing its dominant position in search and online advertising by ranking its own services ahead of those of competitors, according to people familiar with the report, which has not been made public.

The Indian commission adds to growing international scrutiny about how Google operates. The company appears to be facing a kind of regulatory contagion, with accusations in one jurisdiction hopping across borders and emboldening competitors and authorities elsewhere.

In Brazil, the authorities are investigating whether Google favored its own services over others’. In Mexico, a local regulator, also mirroring regulation in Europe, has backed so-called right-to-be-forgotten proposals that allow people to request links about themselves be removed from search results. And privacy watchdogs from Argentina to Hong Kong have questioned the amount of data that Google collects on its users.

The biggest of these threats is in Europe, where the region’s antitrust authority has charged the company with abusing its dominance in search to benefit some of its own services and is also investigating other potential violations connected to Google’s Android mobile phone software.

The European Commission’s decisions are likely to influence regulators in other regions.

“It’s a little hard to imagine others will take decisive action until they see what Brussels does,” said William E. Kovacic, a professor of law at George Washington University and former chairman of the United States Federal Trade Commission. “In many ways they take their cue from what the older and more experienced agencies do.”

Indeed, other international watchdogs, while not explicitly following the European lead, are raising similar questions about Google’s search dominance, how it uses people’s digital data and what privacy rules should apply to its operations worldwide.

In two decades, Google has grown from a tiny start-up to one of the world’s largest companies. But the price for that scale and influence is an expanding list of regulatory woes that could lead to billions of dollars in fines and demands for it to change its business practices to accommodate local laws.

While the search giant calls the West Coast home, the majority of its users are now outside the United States, which has left the company open to regulatory scrutiny that often goes beyond what American officials have called for.

“It’s a consequence of their stature, and I think in many agencies you have, country by country, a large number of affected firms going to the competition agency saying, ‘You have to do something,’ ” Mr. Kovacic said.

India, in particular, has become a crucial market for American Internet companies like Google and Facebook, which are largely shut out of China. Google’s incoming chief executive, Sundar Pichai, was born in India, and the company has made a big push in the country through programs like Android One, an attempt to make a smartphone for less than $50.

But regulatory scrutiny could challenge those plans.

While not explicitly related to Google’s continuing antitrust problems in Europe, India’s accusations, based on a complaint by the matchmaking website Bharat Matrimony and the watchdog group Consumer Unity & Trust Society, are similar.

India’s competition commission will next receive input from both Google and the complainants in what is likely to be a series of hearings, after which it can reject the report, ask for a further investigation or accept it in whole or in part.

Google has until Sept. 10 to respond to the commission, but it could ask for more time. The company is likely to argue that, as of yet, no jurisdiction has found its search results to be anticompetitive, and that there is no legal basis for Google’s competitors to dictate what it puts in its search results.

In India, Google competes with several search services, like Bing from Microsoft, and product search services, like Flipkart and Amazon, as well as local search services, like Justdial.

“We’re currently reviewing this report from the C.C.I.’s ongoing investigation,” a Google spokeswoman said in an email statement. “We continue to work closely with the C.C.I. and remain confident that we comply fully with India’s competition laws.”

As part of a planned trip to the United States, Narendra Modi, India’s prime minister, is expected to visit Google’s Mountain View campus at the end of the month.

In Brazil, the local competition authority opened an investigation two years ago into whether Google used its advertising platform to favor its own services over those of rivals.

Mirroring language used by European antitrust regulators, Brazilian officials said they were reviewing complaints about Google’s shopping service, which rivals say was given greater prominence in search results over competing price-comparison products. The case was based on complaints from Microsoft and Brazilian rivals like Buscapé and Bondfaro, according to regulatory documents.

South Korean competition authorities also raided Google’s local offices in their own two-year antitrust investigation related to the company’s Android mobile software, but they eventually dropped the case in 2013 after finding no wrongdoing.

Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:

• Spotify files to go public.

• Dick’s Sporting Goods will stop selling assault-style rifles.

• The end of an era for Ackman; the start for another one?

• What to make of Wall Street’s response to Mr. Powell?

• The Federal Reserve is walking a monetary tightrope.

• And is Jared Kushner’s weakness his family business?

Want this in your inbox every morning? Sign up here.

Perhaps more than any other streaming service, Spotify has revived the fortunes of recording artists. It is funneling billions of dollars from its subscribers to music companies, which, for the most part, faced a bleak future. But a charity Spotify is not. The company appears to be taking a bigger and bigger cut of the revenue it receives from listeners, according to numbers first made public on Wednesday.

The numbers are included in Spotify’s financial filing with Securities and Exchange Commission ahead of listing its shares on the United States stock market. They strongly suggest that Spotify has successfully flexed its muscle as it negotiates the price it pays record companies for music. This shows up starkly in the filing’s discussion of an expense item called cost of revenues, which, the filing says, “consists predominately of royalty and distribution costs related to content streaming.”

The filing says Spotify had €3.67 billion of premium streaming revenue last year. The cost of that revenue last year was €2.87 billion. The difference between those numbers, the gross profit on streaming revenue, was equivalent to 22 percent of that revenue. That is well up from 16 percent in 2016 and 15 percent in 2015. And how did Spotify bolster its margins? A big factor: It signed more advantageous licensing agreements with music companies. “This decrease in cost of revenue as a percentage of premium revenue was driven largely by a reduction in content costs pursuant to new licensing agreements,” the filing said.

But can Spotify keep turning the screw? The music companies might be willing to compromise on price because the overall amount of dollars they receive is going up, making life easier for the first time in years. But, with Apple, Amazon and others adding subscribers, competition is intensifying. The music industry might be able to exploit that.

— Peter Eavis

Accounting nerds delving into Spotify’s filing will have stumbled on an odd discrepancy.

Two metrics that attempt to capture how much cash a company is taking in had very different totals for 2017. Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, was negative to the tune of €324 million last year. But net cash flows from operations totaled €179 million in 2017. Both totals benefited from adding back large noncash financing costs. So what items bolstered operating cash flows but not Ebitda?

It looks like operating cash flows did better in part because Spotify waited to pay some of its bills. Such items make up what is often called working capital. Spotify wrung €439 million of cash out of working capital in 2017. The question for investors is whether the company can do that every year.

— Peter Eavis

The streaming music service filed its prospectus for a direct listing on the New York Stock Exchange, an unusual route that bypasses the traditional initial public offering process.

Direct listings essentially move trading in a company’s stock from private markets to public ones, with new investors buying shares on the open market.

Wall Street and Silicon Valley will watch Spotify’s listing closely. If it goes well, it could spur other high profile start-ups to pursue a direct listing. Wall Street bankers are unlikely to cheer such a development. Direct listings generate lower fees than the typical I.P.O.

Spotify won’t embark on its roadshow, a series of meetings with investor ahead of the listing, for at least 15 days.

Here’s a look at the details:

Ticker symbol: SPOT

Price range for private shares in 2017:  $37.50-$125.00

 Price range for private shares this year:  $90.00-$132.50

Valuation range in 2017: $6.3 billion to $20.9 billion

Valuation range this year: $15.9 billion to $23.4 billion

Valuation based on the midpoint of its 2018 price range: $19.7 billion

Loss: €1.2 billion in 2017, up from €225 million in 2015

Operating loss: €378 million, compared with €235 million in 2015.

Revenue: €4.1 billion last year, up from €1.9 billion in 2015.

Free cash flow: €109 million in 2017

Ebitda: -€324 million in 2017

Monthly average users: 159 million last year, up from 91 million in 2015

Premium subscribers: 71 million, up from 28 million in 2015

Share of global streaming music market: 42 percent

The amount Spotify has paid in royalties to record labels since its inception: More than $8 billion

Percent of total voting power controlled by co-founder and chief executive, Daniel Ek: 37.3 percent

Percent of total voting power controlled by co-founder, Martin Lorentzon: 43.1 percent

Risks of a direct listing: “Our ability to sell your ordinary shares at or above the price you bought them for due to (i) our listing not having the same safeguards as an underwritten initial public offering, which may result in the public price of our ordinary shares being volatile and declining significantly upon listing, or (ii) the failure of an active, liquid, and orderly market for our ordinary shares to develop or be sustained.”

Despite a sharp selloff in financial markets in early February, the market for public offerings started 2018 with a bang.

Through late February, 30 companies publicly listed their shares on markets in the United States, raising $11.4 billion from investors. That was the strongest annual start for the market since 2000, according to data from Thomson Reuters.

The pipeline of listings to come is also strong. On top of Spotify’s listing, which should come in the next few weeks, Dropbox filed paperwork last week to go public.

One of the U.S.’s biggest gun sellers, Dick’s Sporting Goods, said that it would stop selling assault-style rifles and high-capacity magazines, as well as limit sales of any gun to those 21 and older.

In doing so, the retailer is steering directly into the controversy that has embroiled companies that have taken on the American gun lobby.

Dick’s C.E.O., Edward Stack, told the NYT:

What’s next: Mr. Stack wants what he calls “common sense” changes to gun laws, like the steps his company is taking and broader universal background checks.

Why it’s remarkable:  Other companies, big and small, continue to sever ties to the National Rifle Association. Delta has been openly dressed down — and potentially punished — by Republicans in Georgia after eliminating discounts for N.R.A. members. (Gun control is certainly a hot topic in the midterm election campaign.)

And then there’s this: FedEx and UPS are feuding over ties to the N.R.A.

Over five years ago, Bill Ackman boldly announced that he was shorting Herbalife, declaring the company a pyramid scheme and vowing to see its stock price down to zero.

Today, Mr. Ackman finally gave up on that quest.

The Pershing Square Capital Management chief told CNBC that his firm had finally exited the short bet. That’s after:

• Mr. Ackman’s frenemy, Dan Loeb, took the other side of that bet.

• So did Carl Icahn, in one of the most prominent public spats in recent Wall Street history, before the two men made up. (That didn’t stop Mr. Icahn from continuing to bet on Herbalife.)

How did Herbalife investors respond Wednesday? They pushed shares in the company up 8.5 percent to $94.04, an all-time high.

But Mr. Ackman has found a new investment: United Technologies.

Why? The hedge fund mogul told CNBC that he liked the company — which happens to be considering spinning off parts of itself as a way to get more value for the conglomerate’s shareholders.

Shares in United Technologies were up 2.1 percent this afternoon, at $136.73.

— Michael de la Merced

For months, the former real estate investor’s inability to get a permanent top-secret security clearance has been a lightning rod for criticism. Now his interim credentials have been docked to secret and his West Wing portfolio clipped — and people are asking what happened.

One thing that has come up, per the WaPo, citing unidentified U.S. officials: Officials in China, Israel, Mexico and the United Arab Emirates have discussed how to manipulate him by taking advantage of his business dealings and complicated finances.

Speaking of the Kushner business: It’s is in talks to buy Vornado out of 666 Fifth Ave., the troubled Manhattan skyscraper that the two own, according to the WSJ. Critics will ask, where would the money come from?

Is it scaring off users? So far the answer seems to be no.

CNBC reports Snap’s download rates have remained strong, according to App Annie. And Snap’s shares are up 5 percent.

Background

Snap’s redesign, which has been rolling out over the past few months, has faced growing criticism from users and weighed on the stock. Last week a tweet from Kylie Jenner, saying she did not open Snapchat, sent the stock tumbling 6 percent. Wall Street has picked up on the customer backlash and a couple of analysts have downgraded the stock.

The criticism has also overshadowed Snap’s positive fourth-quarter results earlier this month that pushed its shares up nearly 50 percent.

BlackRock thinks that could be a risk to its business. From the risk factors in BlackRock’s annual report:

The filing goes on to say:

That is how John D. Herrmann, an analyst who covers the bond markets for MUFG Securities Americas, reacted to the testimony in Congress of Jerome Powell. In a note to clients yesterday, Mr. Herrmann cataloged upbeat remarks that Mr. Powell made, and observed that Mr. Powell seemed optimistic not just about the current economic environment, but also the outlook for the next three to four years.

What to make of Wall Street’s response to Mr. Powell?

One interpretation is that Mr. Powell wants investors and others to be more prepared for higher interest rates. Wall Street seems to have settled on a scenario in which the Fed raises interest rates steadily over the next two years. Any sign that rates may rise much more quickly than expected could cause a panicky pullback in the financial markets, which could ultimately harm the economy.

To help prevent that, Fed officials can say things aimed at prompting investors to give more consideration to certain outcomes.

Is it working? 

Arguably, if investors were more concerned, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note would be higher than the 2.88 percent it traded at on Wednesday morning. Bank of America Merrill Lynch is forecasting the 10-year Treasury yield will be 3.25 percent at the end of this year.

Anyone surprised that the yield gets there far more quickly should not be after Mr. Powell’s testimony.

— Peter Eavis

• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin has floated the idea of rejoining the Trans-Pacific Partnership, more than a year after President Trump walked away. (NYT)

• Washington and Beijing are bracing for a new cold war, as President Xi Jinping prepares to stay in power indefinitely.

• Hope Hicks, the White House communications director, said that she hasn’t lied about issues relevant to investigations into Russia’s election interference. And the head of the N.S.A., Adm. Michael Rogers, said that the U.S. hasn’t done enough to deter Russia from future meddling.

• Facebook said that the Trump campaign spent slightly more per ad on its site than Hillary Clinton’s. (Bloomberg)

• Josh Raffel, who was brought to the White House as a spokesman for Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, is leaving. (Axios)

• Mick Mulvaney is focused on cutting financial firms’ cost of complying with regulations by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. (WSJ)

• Ben Carson, the Housing and Urban Development secretary, is under scrutiny for spending $31,000 for furniture for his office as the department looks to cut programs for the homeless, elderly and poor. (NYT)

It’s because the British satellite broadcaster Sky — which Comcast and 21st Century Fox are poised to fight over — is a smaller example of what U.S. telecom giants want to become. More from Stu Woo of the WSJ:

It’s also probably because everyone is worried about Netflix.

Critics’ corner: Investors are right to expect a bidding war, according to Chris Hughes of Gadfly.

The deals flyaround

• Geely built up its stake in Daimler through complex derivative trades that allowed it to build up its holdings while limiting risk, unidentified sources said. (Bloomberg)

• Toshiba’s sale of its memory chip business has opened the door to other Japanese companies selling long-cherished businesses. (FT)

• Talks about a merger between Walgreens Boots Alliance and AmerisourceBergen have ended without an agreement, unidentified sources said. (CNBC)

• Toys “R” Us is in talks to sell its Asian business to Fung Group, its local partner, for at least $1 billion, unnamed sources said. And its British arm has filed for administration and will begin winding down.

• Baidu’s streaming service, iQiyi, filed for an I.P.O. (CNBC)

• Grail, the cancer detection start-up backed by Jeff Bezos and Bill Gates, is planning an I.P.O. in Hong Kong, according to unnamed sources. (Bloomberg)

• Nomad Health, an online marketplace for health care jobs, has raised $12 million in new financing. (BusinessWire)

Women in finance aren’t coming forward in huge numbers, in part because the movement has made the work environment more difficult to navigate.

Here’s what Brande Stellings, who runs advisory services at the women’s advocacy group Catalyst, told Bethany McLean of Vanity Fair:

The misconduct flyaround

• A woman told police that she had a child with Steve Wynn after he raped her. Another reported that she was forced to resign from a job after refusing to have sex with him. (AP)

• NBC Universal defended Ryan Seacrest against sexual harassment allegations and said he would not be removed from Academy Awards coverage on E! (NYT)

• Japanese women who say “Me Too” in Japan still draw criticism rather than sympathy, even from other women. (AP)

• The Weinstein Company’s creditors want to lend the studio $25 million during its upcoming bankruptcy proceedings, unnamed sources said. (Reuters)

• Can prosecutors force American companies to turn over digital data stored outside the United States? The Supreme Court is struggling to apply a 1986 law. (NYT)

• The House passed a bill giving victims and prosecutors more power to sue websites that knowingly aided sex trafficking. Many Silicon Valley companies had opposed the bill, citing potential harm to free speech. (NYT)

• Amazon has paid $1.1 billion for Ring, a maker of internet-connected doorbells and security cameras. (NYT)

• Cameras are getting brains, creating intriguing and eerie possibilities, Farhad Manjoo argues. (NYT)

• Alexa and Siri are forcing household goods giants like Unilever and Nestlé to adapt to a new world of e-commerce. (WSJ)

• Companies and investors are betting that we’ll eventually see air taxi services. (NYT)

• Barack Obama said Google and Facebook needed to remember that they are “a public good as well as a commercial enterprise.” (Recode)

• Bill Gates is skeptical about virtual currencies and initial coin offerings. But the Marshall Islands’ government is planning an I.C.O.

From the WSJ’s profile of Marcus, the Wall Street titan’s consumer lending arm:

• The business literally resides on Main Street (in Salt Lake City).

• Marcus has lent $2.5 billion and gained 350,000 customers since opening in 2016.

• It has quietly acquired a number of businesses, including fintech start-ups like Honest Dollar and G.E.’s former online savings division.

• Lloyd Blankfein reads through customer complaints weekly — but sends the knottiest problems to the firm’s consumer chief, Stephen Scherr.

• Dina Powell, most recently a senior official in the Trump administration, has returned to Goldman as the head of its outreach to government clients. (WSJ)

• Pinterest has hired Francoise Brougher, a veteran of Google and Square, as its first chief operating officer as it marches toward an eventual I.P.O. (Recode)

• SeaWorld’s C.E.O., Joel Manby, has stepped down amid growing losses. (FT)

• Uber’s culture coach for top executives, Frances Frei, has stepped down. (Recode)

• Salvatore Ferragmo’s C.E.O., Eraldo Poletto, is leaving after less than two years. (Bloomberg)

• Mattel’s chief brands officer, Juliana Chugg, is stepping down. (Bloomberg)

• HNA technically owns a stake in Deutsche Bank. The reality is a bit more complicated. (FT)

• With Mr. Xi of China abolishing term limits, any company could be treated like the chairman of Anbang, according to Jamil Anderlini. (FT)

• The online learning company Udacity said that its revenue more than doubled last year, to $70 million, and that it one day hopes to have an I.P.O. (Reuters)

• A former employee at Institutional Shareholder Services said that he leaked details about how its investor clients voted in return for tickets to sporting events and U2 and Jay-Z concerts. (Reuters)

• Francesca Bellettini was considered a strange choice to lead Yves Saint Laurent, but she has propelled it into the exclusive billion-euro club. (NYT)

• Stuttgart, Germany’s car capital, could ban diesel cars in the city as part of an effort to improve air quality. (NYT)

• Raises are back, but what will make them stay? (NYT)

• Craft breweries are giving new fizz to sleepy commercial districts. (NYT)

• Pimco has told Portugal’s public prosector’s office that it will push for compensation if insider trading is proven in the 2015 sale of Novo Banco bonds. (FT)

• Dick Costolo is shutting down Chorus, his social fitness start-up. (Axios)

• Unilever’s C.E.O. expressed regret over the company’s efforts to woo shareholders after Kraft Heinz’s unsolicited takeover approach. (FT)

We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.

SAN FRANCISCO —  The technology industry is partial to dramatic, sometimes blustery, often larger-than-life top executives. Sundar Pichai will have to work hard to be ranked among that colorful crew. He sent news of his ascension to the top slot at Google — he is just the third person to officially run the search company — on Twitter, very obliquely.

“Thanks,” he replied on Monday to two people who had congratulated him. And that was it.

 One of those messages on Twitter, from the former Facebook executive Bret Taylor, was rather understated itself. “One of the most capable technology leaders I have worked with,” Mr. Taylor called Mr. Pichai.

 That is a clue to more than the personality of Google’s new leader. It is also what he wants the technology to be: a servant perfectly attuned to the user’s needs at the moment.

 “I would love for my phone to scream if I am about to miss an important thing in my life, and never bother me if I’m doing something very important and the information coming in is less important than what I’m doing,” Mr. Pichai said in a recent interview. “That’s how I think about it. To me it’s about serving users the right way, and as part of that, sometimes you need to disappear and get out of the way.”

 Mr. Pichai, 43, owes his new job to his success in making Google products easier to use and thus more popular.

He joined the company in 2004 and made a name for himself early as a product manager, working on high-profile efforts like Chrome, the company’s web browser. Chrome grew like a weed, exploding from a single-digit percentage of market share to become the most widely used browser across desktops and mobile devices in the world, according to StatCounter.

 Two years ago, the chief executive, Larry Page, promoted Mr. Pichai to also oversee Android, the software that runs 78 percent of the smartphones sold around the globe, after Andy Rubin stepped down.

“Sundar has a talent for creating products that are technically excellent yet easy to use — and he loves a big bet,” Mr. Page wrote. “Take Chrome, for example. In 2008, people asked whether the world really needed another browser. Today Chrome has hundreds of millions of happy users.”

Born in Tamil Nadu, India, Mr. Pichai spent his early years in the Chennai region. In high school, he was captain of the cricket team. He earned a bachelor of engineering degree from the Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur.

According to a long profile in Bloomberg Businessweek last year, the family did not get its first telephone until Sundar was 12. It was a rotary model. For much of the boy’s childhood, the family did not have a television or a car. The family would get around the city on a scooter, all four members riding at once.

 Mr. Pichai came to the United States and attained a master’s of science degree from Stanford, as well as a master’s in business administration from the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania before working as an engineer at Applied Materials, and in management consulting at McKinsey & Company. He joined Google after trying to talk one of his McKinsey colleagues out of going there, then realizing the arguments in favor of joining the company were better.

During his rise at Google, Mr. Pichai had suitors. In 2011, Twitter tried to lure Mr. Pichai over to run the company’s consumer product division, according to two people familiar with the matter, who requested anonymity because the talks were not made public. And last year, Mr. Pichai was rumored to be in the running to replace Steven Ballmer as chief executive of Microsoft.

Mr. Pichai is well liked by many in the software community at large for his affable manner and friendly approach to his subordinates and contemporaries.

“Sundar never has a bad day. His positive energy is contagious and his optimism attracts the best talent,” said Chris Sacca, a venture capitalist and former colleague of Mr. Pichai’s at Google.

Wall Street seems in favor, too. In after-hours trading Monday, the stock added more than $10 billion in value, an instant endorsement of Google’s new organizational structure and Mr. Pichai’s role in handling the part of the new company that makes the money. Google’s co-founders, Mr. Page and Sergey Brin, will run the umbrella company, called Alphabet.

Jordan Rohan, founder of Clearmeadow Partners, an Internet advisory firm, and a former Wall Street analyst covering Google, said Mr. Pichai had the approval of both the business side of Google as well as the engineers.

“He seems to be a very clear thinker with a strong vision, so he can handle the day to day and the dreamier aspects of Google,” Mr. Rohan said.