['Selling Girl Scout cookies is meant to accomplish more than just distributing Samoas and Thin Mints to the world. Ideally, the girls would learn about setting goals, teamwork, money management and communicating with adults, among other things.', 'If the girls can develop some business acumen, all the better. And one young scout in San Diego has received nationwide plaudits for her shrewd entrepreneurial sense, setting up shop last week outside a marijuana dispensary.', 'The girl, who has not been publicly identified, sold more than 300 boxes in six hours, her father told ABC 10. Boxes now sell for as much as $5 in parts of the country, so she probably raised more than $1,500. Yes, there’s money in the munchies.', 'While some have praised the plucky scout for figuring out where the demand would probably be, the Girl Scouts organization has been wrestling with how to handle marijuana-adjacent sales as more states have legalized the drug.', 'Girls who wheel carts full of cookies are generally free to travel where they please with their parents, even if that path takes them past marijuana shops, but there are often stricter rules around where to set up booths or stands. There are no nationwide policies related to marijuana dispensaries. Each local organization sets its own policies.', '“This is kind of a community issue,” said Mike Lopes, a spokesman for the Girl Scouts of the USA. “For the most part, it’s not any different than selling in front of any other kind of shop. It just happens to be a marijuana dispensary.”', 'The girl in San Diego was selling her cookies outside an Urbn Leaf store, which posted a photo of her on its Instagram account.', '“We were definitely surprised by the controversy this created,” Will Senn, the founder of Urbn Leaf, said in an email.', '“We all love Girl Scout cookies and thought a well-intended, lighthearted post to our social media accounts would be a little way to show our support,” Mr. Senn added. “While some have come out against her efforts due to the sales being made near a cannabis dispensary, there has been an outpouring of support from the public nationwide for this young entrepreneur and her creative marketing strategies. Why wouldn’t we support a local girl’s fund-raising activities?”', 'The San Diego scout isn’t the first girl to anticipate munchies outside a marijuana distributor. In 2014, a 13-year-old sold 117 boxes in two hours outside a medical marijuana clinic in San Francisco.', 'The Girl Scouts of Colorado said in 2014 that it did not allow scouts to sell cookies in front of marijuana shops, liquor stores or bars. But it has since abandoned that policy, AnneMarie Harper, a spokeswoman for the Colorado organization, said in an interview on Wednesday.', '“Back then it was a blanket: ‘No, you may not,’” she said. “Now, it’s more of: ‘Come to us, tell us where you want to be and what you want to do,’ making sure we’re checking off all of the safety guidelines.”', 'When girls in the Colorado organization want to set up a booth, they are required to have the location approved first, Ms. Harper said. The organization vets locations for safety and legal issues, making sure they have permission from businesses and property management companies.', 'Some girls have sold near breweries, she said, but she wasn’t aware of anyone trying to stake out a spot near legal marijuana sellers.', '“We really want girls to be cookie entrepreneurs, to find new and creative ways to reach customers,” she said.', 'William W. Bain Jr., who founded the business consulting firm Bain & Company and was an early mentor to Mitt Romney, died on Tuesday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 80.', 'His wife, Ann Dean Bain, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.', 'A native Tennessean who started his professional life as a development officer at his alma mater, Vanderbilt University, Mr. Bain at first seemed an unlikely candidate for the role of chief executive. Nevertheless, he made Bain & Company a fearsome competitor to McKinsey & Company, the Boston Consulting Group and Booz-Allen Hamilton. Along the way, he opened a venture capital firm, Bain Capital, which remains a leader in its field.', 'The Boston-based Bain & Company worked with some of the biggest companies in the United States, among them Texas Instruments, Black & Decker, Monsanto and Wells Fargo.', '“Chief executives have come to the very strong feeling that a small number of decisions, regarding a small percentage of policies they deal with, in the end determine 90 percent of their success or failure,” Mr. Bain said in a 1979 interview with The New York Times. “They are swamped with studies and information.”', '“Corporate strategy,” he added, in a pitch for his own line of work, “allows them to isolate the small numbers of decisions that are going to have an impact. This makes it possible to manage big diversified companies.”', 'Bain & Company at one point said that for every dollar it charged a client, it increased that client’s profits by a factor of five to 10.', 'William Worthington Bain Jr. was born on July 30, 1937, in Johnson City, Tenn., to William Bain and the former Ruby Cloyd. He attended East Tennessee State University for two years before transferring to Vanderbilt and graduating in 1959 with a degree in history.', 'He was working as Vanderbilt’s director of development when Bruce Henderson, a fellow alumnus who had been impressed with Mr. Bain’s success in raising money for the school, made a compelling offer: to join his own young company, the Boston Consulting Group. Mr. Bain accepted and moved from Nashville to Boston.', 'Once there, he quickly advanced, generating big revenues and earning respect from the firm’s clients.', 'He founded his own company in 1973. Before long, he was poaching both clients and talent from his old firm. “It was war,” Mr. Henderson later said in an interview.', 'Mr. Romney was one of Mr. Bain’s most significant hires. Mr. Romney, a future governor of Massachusetts and the 2012 Republican presidential nominee, joined Bain & Company from the Boston Consulting Group in 1977. A recent graduate of the Harvard Business School, where he had been at the top of his class, Mr. Romney later helped found Bain Capital, where he was managing general partner.', '“It’s hard for me to imagine my life and career without Bill Bain’s mentoring,” Mr. Romney said in a statement after Mr. Bain’s death. “He hired me, taught me, and gave me the opportunity of a lifetime. His vision and confidence made Bain Capital possible.”', 'During his unsuccessful campaign to deny President Barack Obama a second term, Mr. Romney fell under criticism for using controversial tax-avoidance strategies on certain investments that he still held through Bain Capital.', 'A father of four, Mr. Bain set a work schedule for himself that enabled him to arrive home in time to read bedtime stories (and often to catch “Cheers” on TV). As coach of his children’s Little League teams, his son Alexander remembered, he occasionally arrived on the field at the last minute, still wearing his pinstriped suit.', 'By the early 1990s, Mr. Bain had stepped away from his management role. He proceeded to found a small private-equity investment firm, Bain Willard Companies, with Ralph R. Willard, under which he became an owner and director of a yacht-building company.', 'In addition to his wife and his son Alexander, Mr. Bain is survived by three other children, William, Adam and Samantha; three grandchildren; and a brother, Larry.', 'A genre exercise, the detective movie “Small Town Crime” relies on the usual time-tested ingredients: the boozy loner lawman, the beautiful female victim and the reliably mysterious, invariably competent villains. The directors and brothers Eshom Nelms and Ian Nelms have obviously made a study of the genre, both in its old and more recent iterations, and while they’re happy to play around with the form, they pretty much leave the basics intact. By far their smartest, most inspired move is to have cleared room for John Hawkes, one of those actors who are more often seen nibbling at the edges of a scene, leaving perfect little teeth marks that sometimes give a movie its primary texture.', 'Mr. Hawkes plays Mike Kendall, a former cop. He lives alone in a Utah town in nice house with a white picket fence that he’s flattened, doubtless after a hard night. He’s halfheartedly looking for work, but all he seems to want to do is drink and pal around with his brother-in-law (Anthony Anderson). So Mike drinks and drinks some more, tossing back beer until he staggers, stumbles and blacks out. He doesn’t seem otherwise affected by his prodigious consumption and, for some reason, the filmmakers seem amused by it. He looks healthy enough, even when lifting weights between sips.', 'One morning, Mike finds a badly beaten woman (Stefania Barr) near a field that he’s slept in after another soused night. She’s an enigma and soon his possible redemption, a sacrifice to the story gods that lets him play lawman again. With a cheap business card and an equally cheap jacket and tie, he smilingly ambles it into the shamus role, knocking on doors and sniffing out leads among all the yammer and serviceable visuals. Before long he is chasing down a familiar dark tale of very young women and very bad men, and trading patter with both a silky rich cat (Robert Forster) and a smooth pimp (Clifton Collins Jr.), who rolls up with a scowl, pummeling first, asking questions later.', 'The supporting players slide into their types just fine, though for the most part they remain little more than satellites orbiting Mike or, rather, Mr. Hawkes. Even Octavia Spencer, who plays Mike’s sister and, as a performer, can overpower her scenes, never manages to wrest even the tiniest corner from Mr. Hawkes’s firmly relaxed grip. The Nelmses don’t make enough of their more intriguing ideas (Mike’s familial history) and end up right where you expect they would, bang bang. But Mr. Hawkes keeps you tethered, whether he’s navigating the movie’s uneven tones or peeling down one of cinema’s lonely highways in a muscle car so lovingly shot it deserves a co-star credit.', 'Hurricane Irma began to wane Monday, moving north as a tropical storm after tearing through the Caribbean and South Florida, leaving homes and businesses in disarray.', 'Tyson Foods closed four chicken and beef processing plants in Florida and Georgia on Monday in anticipation of the winds and rain, said Derek Burleson, a spokesman for the company. Target shut down 127 stores and four distribution facilities across Florida, Georgia, Alabama and South Carolina and planned to reopen them on a case-by-case basis.', 'Industries including air travel, freight and amusement parks were engaged in herculean efforts to brace for the storm. But many companies could not avoid Irma’s destruction as it battered nearly every part of the region’s tightly intertwined economy.', 'Florida’s amusement parks and attractions emerged relatively unscathed from the storm — physically, at least.', 'The real pain will come in the next few months, as Irma causes a psychological ripple effect through the state that may discourage families from planning trips, said Dennis Speigel, president of International Theme Park Services, a consulting firm in Cincinnati.', '“Orlando lives, breathes, thrives on tourists, and the theme parks are the drivers of that,” he said. “This is a really hard loss — hundreds of millions of dollars in aggregate for the industry down there.”', 'Last year, 68 million tourists visited Orlando, and more than 70 million were expected this year, Mr. Speigel said. But much of the supporting infrastructure of hotels and restaurants has lost power, access to transit and regular deliveries of supplies.', '“These trips are planned six to eight months in advance, with the average family of four spending somewhere in the $7,000 to $8,000 range,” he said. “If you’ve lost a day, you’ve lost that day and you can’t get it back.”', 'Roughly 100 sites shut down across the state in advance of the storm, including the Kennedy Space Center Visitor Complex and the Vizcaya Museum and Gardens, according to the Florida Attractions Association.', 'Universal Orlando, which includes the Wizarding World of Harry Potter, closed Saturday evening but kept its hotels operational and at capacity.', 'SeaWorld Orlando and Busch Gardens Tampa Bay shut even earlier on Saturday, and offered to reschedule or refund vacation packages and individual tickets without cancellation or change fees. Both of those parks were planning to stay closed Tuesday.', 'Disney Springs and Walt Disney World Resort, which includes the Magic Kingdom, Epcot, Hollywood Studios and Animal Kingdom parks, projected a Tuesday reopening.', 'The Magic Kingdom has shut down only four other times in its nearly 46-year history — each time for an incoming hurricane. Tickets start at $99 for a single day.', 'Disney’s dozens of resort hotels in the state remained open during the storm. The company canceled several events and offered guests several refund or ticket exchange options.', '— Tiffany Hsu', 'Air traffic in Florida ground to a halt over the weekend, with more than 9,000 flights canceled at airports in Irma’s path by Monday afternoon.', 'Major air carriers hustled to clear their equipment and employees out of affected areas before the storm hit. Delta Air Lines might have benefited from the timing of the hurricane: The airline has been operating a scaled-back schedule since Labor Day, an adjustment it makes at the end of each summer in response to declining demand — giving it more flexibility.', '“We were able to put larger aircraft or add additional flights into the market to allow people to travel out ahead of the storm,” said Anthony Black, a spokesman for Delta.', 'Airlines were gradually returning to their normal flight schedules, though many planes remained grounded as the storm churned north.', 'Although industry analysts said it was too soon to pin down Irma’s cost, airlines factor extreme weather into their planning.', '“It’s the cost of doing business as a global airline and working in these kinds of environments,” said Ross Feinstein, a spokesman for American Airlines. “We know there can be hurricanes in Florida.”', 'Operations were returning to normal as weather conditions improved and airports confirmed that equipment was functioning and that Transport Security Administration and passport control checkpoints were accessible.', '— Zach Wichter', 'Shares of insurers with exposure in Florida bounced back Monday after Miami avoided taking a direct hit from the hurricane, which inflicted less damage than expected on the state’s Atlantic coast.', 'Universal Insurance Holdings, the parent of Universal Property & Casualty Insurance, the state’s second-biggest carrier, was up more than 13 percent for the day. Its stock had dropped 15 percent on Thursday, then regained some of that ground Friday.', 'The big national carriers like State Farm and Allstate cut back on writing homeowners’ insurance in Florida years ago, citing catastrophic risks and unhelpful state regulators. Those reductions left a vacuum filled by one state-owned insurer and dozens of relatively little-known companies, like Universal, that do all or most of their business in the state.', 'Insurer strength could be more of an issue in Florida than it was with Hurricane Harvey in Texas, where most of the damage was from flooding, a peril covered by the federal government. Wind damage, a much bigger factor in Florida, is covered by standard homeowners’ policies.', 'AIR Worldwide, a catastrophe modeling firm in Boston, predicted on Monday that Irma’s insured damage in the United States would cost the industry $20 billion to $40 billion.', '— Mary Williams Walsh', 'Before the storm arrived, rental car companies transported their vehicles elsewhere or to higher ground when possible. But once firms assess the condition of their fleets, many are expected to work with federal and state agencies and insurance adjusters to make vehicles available for rent to assist in recovery efforts.', '“We’re trying to get these folks into vehicles as soon as possible so they can come in for the recovery process,” said Lisa Martini, a spokeswoman for Enterprise Holdings, which owns Enterprise, Alamo and National.', 'Those companies and others, including Hertz and Avis Budget Group, are waiving certain fees, such as charges for late returns, one-way drop-offs and cancellations, to ease travel in affected areas.', 'Christopher Agnew, a senior research analyst at MKM Partners, said he expected the rental car industry to lose profits early on, but to rebound eventually.', '— Zach Wichter', 'Several cruise companies canceled or cut short trips in the Caribbean and redeployed some of the hulking ocean liners to aid in hurricane relief efforts as ports in Miami, the Everglades, Canaveral and Tampa remained closed Monday.', 'Carnival Cruise Line rescheduled at least six cruises and canceled six more.', 'Royal Caribbean canceled two cruises to Cuba and the Bahamas, rerouting the ships to help areas ravaged by the storm, and rescheduled four other trips. Before transporting stranded travelers to Puerto Rico, the company’s Majesty of the Seas ship delivered ice, water, garbage bags, medical supplies and other provisions to St. Thomas and St. John.', 'Royal Caribbean said it would refund all fares and fees for the two canceled cruises and offer a 25 percent credit for new cruises booked in the near future.', 'Norwegian Cruise Lines sent two ships, the Norwegian Sky and the Norwegian Escape, to Miami on Thursday to allow more than 6,000 passengers to disembark ahead of the storm. The company chartered flights to Atlanta for some passengers and booked hotel rooms for others.', 'The Sky then traveled to St. Thomas to pick up 2,000 stranded tourists, said Vanessa Picariello, a spokeswoman for the company.', '— Vivian Wang', 'James Albis cannot wait for it to snow — messy, heavy, hard-to-drive-through snow. He probably wants it to snow more than just about anyone but a small child eager to have a day off from school. Without lots of snow, his technology start-up, SnoHub, which he has called “the Uber of snowplowing,” could suffer.', 'Last year, there were two major snowstorms in southern Connecticut, where Mr. Albis tested his app, which connects homeowners with snow-filled driveways to a roving band of snowplows. He said the app had been downloaded 1,000 times and the company brought in $25,000 that winter.', 'In the off-season, the company expanded north to Boston and south to Philadelphia by contracting with more snowplow drivers. In a traditional business, this would be a sign that a company was poised for growth. But with SnoHub, all the preparation could be for naught if the snow does not fall.', 'Entrepreneurs with seasonal businesses are a different breed of business owner. Their days are filled with all of the rush and anxiety of a typical business owner, but the time to make a majority of their revenue — upward of 70 percent — is compressed into a few months.', 'Fluctuations in seasonal employment — and by extension, seasonal business activity — are well tracked in the labor market, which is why monthly job numbers are seasonally adjusted, removing the peaks and valleys in the economic cycle.', 'But when those figures are not adjusted, the raw data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics shows that businesses increase hiring and business activity two times a year, in the summer with a peak in June and for the holidays, cresting in November. Regardless of how the broader economy is faring, January is always a low point for business activity.', 'But knowing what the statistics say and managing a business with a small window for profit are two different things. There is little margin for error. Here are some tips from small-business owners who depend on the seasons.', 'Preparation is key.', 'Helen Yarmak, a high-end fur designer, said her selling season stretched from a few weeks before Thanksgiving to Valentine’s Day. To get clients interested in her new designs, she invites them to her studio in Milan during the summer.', 'But with her business, much of the preparation is based on the availability of top pelts. For example, she said she spent years buying the 80 sable pelts that went into a single coat, which she is selling for 450,000 euros (about $528,000).', '“It can take a long time to collect sables,” she said.', 'Cielo and Philip Masters, mother-and-son owners of Craftmasters, a store that has been operating on Nantucket, Mass., since 1976, spend the winters making their signature belts, knowing they will have no time to make them during the summer. They also work with their artisans to produce perennial favorites, like accessories with scrimshaw on them.', '“We prepare for things that are staples, but every year, there are going to be different things that are popular,” Mr. Masters said.', 'That’s where adaptability comes in. They make or order products during the off-season, Mr. Masters, but they are careful not to order too much of anything new.', '“In July, we try to catch on to a trend,” he said. “We have to be really careful about how we see the trends.”', 'Adapt to clients.', 'At risk in missing a trend, of course, is the financial viability of the store. That adaptability can mean accommodating a client outside of normal business hours.', 'Kenneth Mark, a dermatologist, has offices in the Hamptons and Manhattan. But a decade ago, he got his medical license in Colorado and opened a winter office in Aspen. Many of his well-heeled clients vacation in Aspen, but he opened the seasonal business for personal reasons: his love of skiing.', 'Dr. Mark spends one week a month in Aspen from December to April, he said. But that means he has to accommodate clients in the New York area — or in Aspen — if they call at the last minute.', '“I can’t say, I’ll see you next week,’ if I’m not around,” he said. “It’s not as easy or as glamorous as it sounds. I’m working every single day I’m out there.”', 'Less than a quarter of his income comes from his Aspen practice, but he said it had helped him to expand his medical practice. Clients from Aspen come to see him in New York in the summer. And being on the slopes has helped market his presence, he said.', '“I could be skiing down a run under the gondola and people could be yelling down, ‘Hey Dr. Kenny, I need Botox,’” he said.', 'Not all businesses can move from one location to another. With SnoHub, Mr. Albis is bound by season, so he puts a premium on accommodating clients.', 'When something goes wrong, like a truck knocking down a mailbox, he does not want customers to worry that the plow driver won’t pay for damages. “We control the purse, so we can hold back payment for them for seven days,” he said. “That provides a lot more reassurance for the homeowners.”', 'He created the app to tell users how far away their driver was and how much it would cost, based on the length of the driveway and the depth of the snow.', '“We’re looking at the customer focused on convenience,” he said. To that end, homeowners are sent before-and-after photos so they know the job was done.', 'Hire year-round employees. ', 'Every entrepreneur has stories of things going wrong, but there is less time to fix them in a seasonal business. David Schreiber owns Club Getaway, which has a traditional summer camp for children but has staked its brand on weekend camps for adults.', 'Each weekend is focused on a group — young professionals, entrepreneurs and investors, and even fans of the filmmaker John Waters — and he has developed a loyal following. But he struggles with hiring people who can advance his brand.', '“Every year, it’s starting from scratch,” he said. “It’s hard to find staff who are wiling to work six months on, six months off.”', 'His solution is to have a year-round staff of about a dozen who can continue to sell camp weekends in the off-season and train new employees in the spring.', 'Enjoy the off-season.', 'For some seasonal business owners, starting each season fresh is a source of flexibility, not stress. Kimberly Summers founded Student Concierge Services, essentially an on-call mom for boarding school students in northern Connecticut, when her son started attending one of those schools.', 'She charges $4,500 for a year for services that include taking a child to see a doctor or to buy a new iPhone. The business gives her summers off, which she wanted to spend with her son.', 'The off-season for most of these businesses is a time to regroup. But certain businesses get another blip of activity, which helps with any business’s big concern: cash flow.', 'Mr. Masters said he and his mother were getting ready for the Christmas Stroll, which happens on Nantucket the first weekend in December. “Anyone who lives on Nantucket during the summer, they all come back for one last hurrah,” he said. “We could make more on that weekend than the entirety of October and November.”', 'Mr. Schreiber said he was planning a ski-themed Club Getaway weekend at Mount Snow, a resort in Vermont, for January. Typically, 100 people go, compared with 300 for a summer weekend.', '“It’s not that profitable,” he said. “But it really helps with cash flow.”', 'And managing cash flow is the key to these businesses living to see another season.', 'NEW DELHI — Donald Trump Jr., who has spent the week in India pitching new luxury high-rises that bear his family’s name, took the stage before a crowd of about 200 on Thursday. “Building a Better Mumbai,” the banner behind him proclaimed.', '“We’re actually delivering true luxury,” Mr. Trump told the guests, who were greeted by a red carpet, lit candles and a jazz band. “We’re actually delivering buildings in the Indian marketplace that you can take out of that marketplace, put in any cosmopolitan of the world and say, ‘This is on par with some of the best.’”', 'The Trump Organization is reaping the windfall from India’s admiration for President Trump. He may have low approval ratings at home, but he appears well liked in a country with one of the fastest-growing populations of millionaires in the world.', 'The Trump brand “spells glamour more than luxury,” said Kalyani Chawla, a brand consultant and former executive at Christian Dior in India who attended the event. “I think it’s all about Donald Trump, honestly,” she said, “any idea of Donald Trump in general, regardless of the fact that even he’s surprised he’s the president of the United States.”', 'But even before the president’s son arrived in India to press the flesh and do the deals, his trip was creating controversy over its potential for blurring the lines between the Trump White House and the Trump Organization.', 'As Mr. Trump hopped from city to city, Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, sought assurances from the United States Embassy in Delhi that it was not helping Mr. Trump. And ethics experts seemed unable to overstate the incongruity of a sitting president’s son drumming up business overseas.', '“Nothing like this — no, never,” said Marilyn L. Glynn, who served as general counsel at the Office of Government Ethics during parts of the Clinton and Bush administrations. “Unprecedented, unheard-of.”', 'The controversy only grew as word spread that Mr. Trump planned to give a speech in New Delhi on Friday, taking the podium before Prime Minister Narendra Modi speaks. The topic: “Reshaping Indo-Pacific Ties: The New Era of Cooperation.”', '“The title sure sounds like something you would hear from a diplomat,” said Joshua White, who worked in the Obama White House as director for South Asian Affairs at the National Security Council. “It is not illegal, but it would muddy the waters and I think make life rather difficult for those in the United States government who are being measured about how they articulate what the administration’s Indo-Pacific strategy is and will become.”', 'On Wednesday, Mr. Menendez said in a letter to the embassy in New Delhi, “Given the potential to confuse Mr. Trump’s private business visit with having an official governmental purpose, I write to ensure that the U.S. Embassy presence in India will have no role in supporting Mr. Trump or the Trump Organization during his time in India, other than that necessary to provide any security support for the U.S. Secret Service.”', 'The embassy said it had no role in the visit other than helping with his security.', 'In his comments on the stage in Mumbai on Thursday, Mr. Trump defended his actions, and said his father’s job had actually been bad for business.', '“We don’t want any kind of conflict of interest,” he said. “We don’t want anyone to say that we’re taking advantage. From a business perspective, it’s clearly a negative. There will be a time after politics where we will be able to get back into that market.”', 'After the talk was done, many in the audience excitedly rushed the stage to shake his hand before he disappeared.', 'If India loves the president’s son, he appears to love it back.', '“I think there is something about the spirit of the Indian people that is unique here to other parts of the emerging world,” Mr. Trump said in a local television interview earlier in the week. He said, “I don’t want to be glib but you can see the poorest of the poor and there is still a smile on a face.”', '“I know some of the most successful people in the world and some of them are the most miserable people in the world,” he added.', 'Before speaking at the reception in Mumbai on Thursday evening, Mr. Trump made a renewed pitch for one of his company’s developments in the city, meeting with dozens of buyers in the tower overlooking the Arabian Sea.', 'After paying 80 million Indian rupees, or $1.2 million, for a three-bedroom apartment, Sumeet Arora, one of the buyers, expected the developer to be prompt for the meeting. Instead, they waited for an hour and a half for Mr. Trump to show up.', 'When he finally arrived at noon, Mr. Trump gave the well-heeled audience members a sales pitch on the virtues of the building, even though they had already collectively pledged millions of dollars on the units, which are to open by June 2019.', '“They’ve got some units left — they wanted us to suggest people as leads,” Mr. Arora said.', 'Under the Trump administration, New Delhi is enjoying some of the warmest relations it has ever had with Washington. For Indian officials, part of the appeal is the hard line the administration has taken on Pakistan, India’s chief rival. But for many other Indians, it is simply that the Trump family name seems to them to be synonymous with success.', 'In New Delhi over the weekend, several of the country’s leading newspapers carried full front-page ads with the younger Mr. Trump’s face, arms crossed over his chest with the question: “Trump is here. Are you invited?”', 'The ad promised a meeting with the president’s son if prospective buyers put down a booking fee of about $38,000 for a Trump Organization project in Gurgaon, just south of New Delhi.', 'The promise of a meeting with the younger Mr. Trump was apparently enough to spur sales, said Kalpesh Mehta of Tribeca Developers, the Trump Organization’s partner for the Gurgaon project. Mr. Mehta told local reporters that on Monday alone, when Mr. Trump touched down in New Delhi to kick off his weeklong tour, the company recorded sales of $15 million. Ground has yet to be broken on the two Trump towers in Gurgaon — the completion date is in 2023 — but sales have topped $100 million, Mr. Mehta said.', 'Mumbai is the financial center of the country and has one of the largest concentrations of billionaires in the world.', 'It also has some of its biggest slums.', 'In the city, formerly known as Bombay, construction cranes and half-finished buildings dot the skyline. New towers compete with old ones, as buildings go ever higher to maximize space and provide better views of the Arabian Sea and the city below.', '“Bombay all of a sudden has gone vertical,” said Mr. Arora, whose current home in a 10-story building in Mumbai’s Juhu neighborhood has slowly been dwarfed by taller buildings.', 'Ms. Chawla, the brand consultant who attended the candlelit reception, said she admired the Trump properties she has seen abroad. But there is a world of difference between admiring and owning.', '“I wish I could afford it,” she said. “I feel really inadequate sometimes when I come to these things.”', 'The daytime is for losers. Overnight is when the big money is made in the stock market — not by trading but by getting a good night’s sleep.', 'That’s because of a gap between daytime and overnight returns in the American stock market. The real profits for investors have come when the market is closed for regular trading, according to a new stock market analysis by Bespoke Investment Group.', 'The Bespoke data builds on the findings of academic researchers, who have documented the existence of the gap, without being able to entirely explain its cause.', '“We can show that the gap exists,” said Huseyin Gulen, a finance professor at Purdue University who has written about the issue. “But at this point we don’t know exactly why.”', 'Simply put, the gap may be defined as the difference between stock returns during the hours the market is open, and the returns after regular daytime trading ends. How the gap is calculated may not be intuitively obvious, though.', 'One set of returns is straightforward: It is based on prices at the start of trading in New York at 9:30 a.m. to the market close at 4 p.m. The second set is, essentially, the reverse: It is price returns from the 4 p.m. close to the market opening at 9:30 a.m. the following day.', 'Because stock prices at the market open tend to be higher than the price at the previous day’s close, you don’t actually have to stay up all night and trade on an electronic network to rack up overnight gains. Simply holding shares while you sleep will do it. So for buy-and-hold investors, these findings are particularly encouraging: Get your rest, ignore the temptation to trade and you can do just fine.', 'The new Bespoke analysis focuses on the returns of the first exchange-traded fund in the United States: the SPY or SPDR S&P 500 E.T.F., which started trading on Jan. 29, 1993. That E.T.F. mirrors the Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index, which often serves as a proxy for the entire stock market (though it actually represents only 500 of the biggest companies).', 'The SPY’s overall price gain from its inception through January has been stupendous: 541 percent cumulatively, not counting dividends, Bespoke says.', 'But look more closely, as Bespoke did, and a remarkable fact emerges.', 'Separate the daytime and the after-hour returns and calculate them cumulatively, as Bespoke has done, and it turns out that all of that price gain since 1993 has come outside regular trading hours.', 'If you had bought the SPY at the last second of trading on each business day since 1993 and sold at the market open the next day — capturing all of the net after-hour gains — your cumulative price gain would be 571 percent.', 'On the other hand, if you had done the reverse, buying the E.T.F. at the first second of regular trading every morning at 9:30 a.m. and selling at the 4 p.m. close, you would be down 4.4 percent since 1993.', 'For 25 years, in other words, the daytime has been a net loss. To paraphrase Ray Charles, the nighttime has been the right time to be invested in the stock market.', 'One implication is immediate. “Forget about the news and the market ups and downs during the day,” said Paul Hickey, co-founder of Bespoke. “They are nowhere close to what they are cracked up to be.” In fact, he said, most people are better off if they just sit tight.', 'Buying and holding the overall market — using an E.T.F. like the SPY, or a traditional index mutual fund, or a very diversified portfolio of stocks — has been an extremely profitable strategy if you stuck to it for the last 25 years. On the other hand, buying and selling during the day has generally been a money-losing strategy — one that would have been far more painful if you had traded frequently, incurring steep costs, which would have compounded your losses.', 'That said, there are plenty of exceptions to these general statements.', 'Many individuals and institutions have made tons of money through short-term trading during regular trading hours, even if investors over all have not. Furthermore, the steadily rising stock market in the 12 months through January has been better in the daytime than it has been historically — posting gains in the SPY during regular trading hours of 9.2 percent. Still, the overnight gains have been much better: 13.4 percent over the same period. The gap in returns has endured.', 'Why it has done so is the subject of speculation. “We’ve got hypotheses,” said Michael Kelly, a finance professor at Lafayette College, who has studied the issue. “But we don’t really know why it happens.”', 'One possibility, he said, is that frequent traders laboring under the “illusion of control” believe that they can respond easily to information and events during the day but can’t do so as easily after hours, when there are far fewer market participants and less money, or “liquidity,” involved in trading. “People may be inclined to sell at the market close so they can feel in control of their money overnight,” he said.', 'There is some evidence that smaller traders are prey to this tendency and tend to sell late in the day — and that some big institutional traders, who are well aware of the day-night gap, tend instead to buy at the close and sell at the open.', 'Because relatively few people actually trade after the market closes, orders tend to build up overnight, and in a rising market, that will produce an upward price surge when the market opens. But during extended declines, overnight sell orders may cause prices to plummet when the market opens.', 'If there were no trading costs — possible in a thought experiment but not in the real world — an excellent strategy over the last few decades would have been buying shares at the last possible moment during regular trading hours and selling them methodically at the opening bell every day, Professor Gulen of Purdue said.', 'While transaction costs make that strategy uneconomical, he said, the concept may still have a certain value. “If you do know that you are going to make a trade on a given day, and you have the ability to choose when you do it, you might be able to take advantage of this pattern — buying late in the day and selling early.” Of course, the pattern doesn’t hold every single day, and you could easily be disappointed.', 'Part of the gap in returns can probably be explained by the human tendency to panic at bad news, Professor Kelly said. “That panic seems to happen during the day,” he said. “One advantage of not trading during the day is that you aren’t as likely to participate in panicky selling.”', 'His data shows that during the bear market year of 2008, the overall market, as represented by the SPY E.T.F., declined 36.8 percent. But most of the damage occurred during the day, with losses of 26.7 percent, compared with only 13.8 percent overnight.', 'But further study needs to be done before the mystery of the day-night gap is unraveled, he said.', 'In the meantime, Mr. Hickey said, “If you are tempted to day trade, this is another argument for not doing it,” he said. “And trading after hours is in some ways, even riskier, because with fewer people in the market, prices can be erratic.”', 'Slow and steady investing generally avoids these problems. And over long periods, it has paid off. Frequent trading generally has not, either night or day.']