['With its faux-marble floors and pink pleather booths, the Wayne Hills Diner in suburban New Jersey is not the kind of place you’d expect to find a TV actress. But on a recent chilly morning, Holly Taylor, the rising star of FX’s “The Americans,” could be spotted here flipping through an enormous menu.', 'She’s been coming to this diner since she was a kid. During her high school years, her boyfriend courted her here because he knew she liked the chicken fingers. They’re still dating, and she still lives in town with her parents.', 'Wearing a vintage trench coat (a gift from the wardrobe department) and a fuzzy preppy sweater, Ms. Taylor, 20, ordered silver dollar pancakes and a fruit cup. Put a Bible in her hand and Phil Collins on the jukebox, and she could easily be mistaken for her TV alter ego, Paige Jennings.', 'Surveying the room, she admitted that playing Paige had made her more aware of people following her or watching her. “Which gets confusing,” she said, “because I don’t know if they’re just being weird, or if they like the show.”', 'Ms. Taylor has certainly become a person of interest. Over five seasons, her character has matured from the supporting role of the daughter of Elizabeth and Philip Jennings, the spies played by the stars (and real-life couple) Keri Russell and Matthew Rhys, into a major, and surprisingly polarizing, figure. Now, in the show’s final season, she’s poised to carry on the family tradition as a next-generation K.G.B. operative.', 'In typical Cold War fashion, Ms. Taylor is coy about the details. But this much we know: Season 6 picks up in 1987. Paige, now a college student, is being groomed by her militant mother in the ways of Soviet spyhood, shadowing her on missions, training in the martial arts techniques of Krav Maga and learning how to cook Russian stew.', '“Paige is exposed to some of the things that her mom does that she wasn’t aware of before,” Ms. Taylor said. “She starts to realize that maybe it’s not all what she thought it was.”', 'This foretells an epic Jennings clash, as Paige has always been “a sort of nexus for the moral issues her family faced,” Joel Fields and Joe Weisberg, showrunners of “The Americans,” wrote in a joint email. “The further she was drawn into her parents’ world, the more she provoked this great battle between Philip and Elizabeth over the state of her soul.”', 'Paige wants to do the right thing, even if that means betraying the trust of her parents. Some of her moves have landed her in hot water, both on- and offscreen. Her decision, at the end of Season 3, to out her parents’ livelihood to her pastor was met with seething outrage by the show’s fans. Nasty tweets surfaced, calling for her to suffer the same fate as an unfortunate character who was murdered, then grotesquely broken up to fit into a suitcase.', '“I’ve had someone literally point to my face and scream that they hate me, randomly in the street, without even introducing themselves,” Ms. Taylor said. “I was like, ‘Nice to meet you, too?’”', 'The reaction was hurtful and also surprising: American citizens were mad at her for exposing Russian spies? But she credits the show’s writers for “switching people’s perspective completely.”', 'Gone is the 1980s perception of “Russia as the bad guy,” she said. “You see why they’re doing what they’re doing, and how they are humans.”', 'While Ms. Taylor was born a decade after the era chronicled in “The Americans,” she’s developed an appreciation for life before the iPhone. “When they’re doing all this spy stuff, Elizabeth can’t just text Phil and be like, ‘The bad guy’s coming around the corner, take cover,’” she said.', 'Like Paige, Ms. Taylor is close to her parents, Mark and Margaret Taylor. Originally from Britain, they were living in Nova Scotia when she was born and then moved to Wayne, N.J., when she was 3. (She has one brother, who’s older.) There, they enrolled her in a dance class, and she took to it immediately. “My dream was to be on Broadway,” Ms. Taylor said. “My parents didn’t even know what Broadway was.”', 'They found out. When Ms. Taylor was 11, she landed a part as a ballet student in the original Broadway production of “Billy Elliot.” Her parents kept her in school, and her mother commuted with her to Manhattan six days a week. “They definitely thought school was more important, but at the same time, they didn’t want to ruin the opportunity for me,” Ms. Taylor said. “If my grades were to ever start slacking, it would’ve been like, ‘You’re out.’”', 'A few years later, Ms. Taylor was cast on “The Americans,” this time commuting to Brooklyn, where the show is filmed. “She just seemed like a real kid, with a natural ability to convey these complex emotions,” the showrunners wrote in their email.', 'She largely continued to live as a “real kid,” even as she starred on a critically acclaimed cable drama. Her parents maintained lofty academic expectations, and she met them. (“I was 4.0 G.P.A., in every single honor society and in student council,” she said.) Her friends thought it was “cool” that she was on TV, but because it was a grown-up show, they didn’t watch and often forgot that their friend was sort of famous.', '“There’s been times when I’m out with them, and someone will recognize me, and they’re like, ‘Why is this lady talking to her?’” Ms. Taylor said.', 'Her first seasons of playing Paige on the show were mostly unremarkable, but everything changed when she found out the family secret. After reading the script, Ms. Taylor said: “I knew they couldn’t just let that die. We had to see what happens. How she’s going to react? Is she going to tell people? Is she going to support them?”', 'Few answers were available, she added, because the producers are “very tight-lipped.”', '“They don’t tell you anything,” she added.', 'The truth is that nobody anticipated how pivotal a role she would eventually play. Paige’s story line has become “just as central to the show as any of the marital or political drama,” Mr. Fields and Mr. Weisberg said. “In many ways, it was Holly’s performance that allowed us to dig so deep there.”', 'One plot twist that Ms. Taylor didn’t anticipate — or enjoy — was her puppy-love romance with Matthew Beeman (Daniel Flaherty).', '“I hated it so much,” she said. “Could you imagine going to work to make out with this person while 60 men, who’ve known you since you were little, stand around to watch you do it 15 times in a row at least?” She watched the episode at home with her family and boyfriend, a pillow over her head.', 'Expect less kissing and more punching this season, as Paige steps into her new role as defender of the motherland in the culminating stretch of both the Soviet Union and “The Americans.” But with interest in Russian spycraft higher than at any time since the Cold War, could a spinoff series, starring Paige in a pre-Putin era, be a possibility?', 'Ms. Taylor said nyet: “I’ve asked repeatedly if there’s going to be a spinoff, if there’s going to be a movie after, and they’re like, ‘Nope, nope, nope,’ and they constantly shoot me down. So I think it’s confirmed now.”', 'In the meantime, she continues to commute from her parents’ home in Wayne to Union, N.J., where she’s studying advertising at Kean University. She’s also been auditioning for new TV shows, but hopes that they don’t take her too far from home.', '“I like where I’m from, and I like the suburbs,” she said. “New Jersey gets so much hate” because of shows like “Jersey Shore” and “The Real Housewives of New Jersey,” she noted, “but it really has everything.”', 'Including the world’s best chicken fingers.', 'This fall, the Trump administration found its new favorite nondenial denial. When a reporter asked the embattled Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about a rumor that he had called the president a “moron” back in July, he replied, “I’m not going to deal with petty stuff like that.” When the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, was asked to comment on political criticism from the Republican senators Bob Corker and Jeff Flake, she dismissed their criticism as “petty comments.” In an Oct. 5 briefing, she brushed off the “moron” story as a “petty, ridiculous accusation” after chastising the media for spending only “5 percent of your time” on “big issues” and filling the rest with “petty palace intrigue.”', 'Never mind that the Trump administration is normally eager to litigate everything from whether the president owns a bathrobe to the size of his inauguration crowds, or that Sanders herself is the reigning queen of what The New Yorker’s Masha Gessen recently called “the petty power struggle” — the art of belittling questions so thoroughly that press briefings come and go with no actual information dispersed. This is the projection presidency, the “I’m rubber, you’re glue” administration. Its deployment of “petty” as a weapon is particularly canny because it parrots a legitimate strain of press criticism, one that warns reporters against getting sidetracked by meaningless White House spectacles. But at the same time that Sanders is acting appalled by correspondents’ questions, the president’s own petty grievances are working overtime to lure us to national distraction. His recent Twitter rebuke of Time magazine — a “you can’t fire me because I quit” move, in which he claimed to have turned down a potential “Person of the Year” designation — set off an entire trivial news cycle that pushed aside more quotidian political news, like updates on tax-bill negotiations.', 'It would be easy to assume, surveying the national scene, that pettiness is universally regarded as a bad thing. But in other corners of the culture, it’s experiencing a kind of renaissance. On black Twitter, a certain brand of pettiness — the kind that involves gleefully asserting yourself over the smallest points and meticulously cataloging and avenging the tiniest of slights — is celebrated as a virtue and a skill, the comedic equivalent of possessing strong attention to detail. It’s celebrated in display-name puns — Petty Boop, Petty Labelle, Petty Images — and circulated in animated GIFs cut from reality-TV shows. The black entertainment blog Bossip is hot on the petty beat, publishing lists like “The Pettiest Celebrities in the Game” and curating the highlights of #PettyTwitter. The trend has even been converted into product, with Forever 21 selling a satin baseball cap inscribed with the word PETTY.', 'Here, the truly petty person becomes a kind of superhero: She’s focused, exacting, unwilling to suffer fools (or literally anything else) gladly. She is an everyday person who treats everything that relates to her as incredibly consequential. If you happen to be the president, of course, the smallest events of your life are already of great consequence — as are your pettiest reactions to them. Trump’s impulse to publicly dunk on Time magazine, when aimed at Kim Jong-un, also has the power to nudge the doomsday clock closer to nuclear holocaust. The context of Tillerson’s insult wasn’t a small thing, either: According to NBC News, it came after a situation-room meeting in which the president was said to be so flippant, about such serious geopolitical issues, that one anonymous adviser told a reporter, “Maybe we need to slow down a little and explain the whole world” — to the president of the United States. The value of sweating the small stuff, it turns out, depends quite a lot on how much power you have to affect the big stuff.', '“Petty” literally means “small.” It evolved from the French petit in the late 14th century. A century later, it had curdled into a belittling insult, referring to issues of “small importance” or to “small minded” people. To call other people petty can be to reduce them, and swat them away. It can also be a way to make yourself large, staking your claim to a plane of existence far above such irrelevant nonsense. “Petty” can describe the nonsense, but it can also describe the kind of person who is constantly stooping to engage with it, often transparently in the service of his own ego. “Petty” is both the trifling junk and the person who can’t resist dealing in it.', 'Ancient Chinese texts drew a class distinction between the junzi, the aristocratic gentlemen, and the xiaoren, the common men — poor, unskilled and, supposedly, stupid and immoral. Western translators quickly found the perfect Romance-language equivalent: the “petty man.” And 19th-century Marxists made a distinction between the bourgeoisie and the “petite” or “petty bourgeoisie” class beneath it — not just merchants and small-business owners but also all the workers, like foremen and supervisors, who have day-to-day control over means of production they don’t actually own. Kierkegaard extrapolated a spiritual failing from that class position: “Devoid of imagination, as the petty bourgeois always is, he lives within a certain orbit of trivial experience as to how things come about, what is possible, what usually happens, no matter whether he is a tapster or a prime minister.”', 'These days, pettiness is openly flaunted by the powerful, who are uniquely capable of sending their own smallness radiating throughout the culture. It stretches from Washington to America’s biggest pop star: On her new album, “Reputation,” Taylor Swift re-establishes herself as the perpetual victim in a career-spanning spat with Kanye West. (The first single was titled “Look What You Made Me Do,” as if it were blaming us for its existence.) Business moguls can act small, too. After workers at the local New York news sites DNAinfo and Gothamist voted to unionize, the billionaire owner Joe Ricketts quickly laid off all of them and, out of what seemed like sheer pique, shuttered the websites, briefly wiping archives of reporters’ work from the internet.', 'Pettiness often manifests itself as an outsize form of revenge — responding to mild slights by putting an absurd amount of energy into plotting meaningless reprisals. (One theory even claims this is how Donald Trump wound up president: His drive to run swelled when Barack Obama made fun of him at a fancy dinner.) There is something unseemly about this habit among the powerful. But when it’s practiced by others, there is a delicious sense of possibility in it — a kind of freedom in going to the mat over things you’re expected to brush off. Hence black Twitter’s embrace of the concept, which sloshes through the digital world in countless jokes and anecdotes and reaction GIFs from black television shows: say, a clip of Traci Braxton, of WE TV’s “Braxton Family Values,” spelling out “P-E-T-T-Y,” or the one from Bravo’s “Married to Medicine,” in which Quad Webb-Lunceford says, “Honey, you are petty boots!”', 'Here, “petty” constitutes a reclamation. Just like the insults “geek” and “nerd” have been adopted as proud signifiers of niche interests, identifying as petty signals a willingness to point out slights and center details that are overlooked in the wider culture. But while geeks are imagined as masculine and white, petty is both racialized and a little bit feminized. It’s a light cultural rejoinder to the concept of microaggressions, those passing instances of everyday racism that add up into a larger, more insidious picture. (See, for instance, Bossip’s gleeful dragging of Taylor Swift’s “kale-infused” and “tapioca-splattered” performance of innocence, and the “hilariously petty” reactions it’s inspired.)', 'As with every cultural trend pioneered by black people, white people can’t wait to make pettiness their own. BuzzFeed, a master of laundering black internet trends for bigger, whiter audiences, recently added pettiness to its emotional palette, compiling celebratory lists of petty memes and petty texts scraped from social media — often originally posted by black users. The word is emblazoned on sweatshirts, on tote bags, on necklaces. The trouble is that, when you strip pettiness of cultural necessity and make it accessible up the ranks of the privileged, it risks becoming something monstrous. Not everyone in America can be the underdog, leveraging his or her own grievances as refreshing and liberating. At some level, all you have is a powerful person putting all of his weight behind a pointless, small-minded fight.', 'Once the powerful have embraced childish sparring and petty egoism, though, how can anyone escape it? Tillerson, who once enjoyed unparalleled status as the chairman and C.E.O. of ExxonMobil, tried to keep himself above the fray of that “moron” story by dismissing the whole thing as irrelevant. Instead, he found himself on the receiving end of a barb from his boss. “I think it’s fake news,” Trump said, “but if he did that, I guess we’ll have to compare I.Q. tests. And I can tell you who is going to win.” Even as he’s trying to play down the story and suggest it’s all nonsense, the president can’t resist stooping to claim he’s still the smart one. You can seek the high road, but these days, someone will always try to bait you back to the low one.', 'Within hours of announcing its decision to end a credit card relationship with the National Rifle Association, the First National Bank of Omaha found itself thrust into the center of the resurgent national gun debate.', 'Its Twitter and Facebook pages were flooded with comments. Some customers applauded the 160-year-old bank’s decision. Others said they would take their business elsewhere.', 'In the aftermath of the deadly school shooting in Florida last week, businesses were making the same financial and moral calculus, quickly discovering that there is no neutral ground. As pressure mounted across various social media platforms on Friday, a number of corporations, including several car-rental companies, MetLife insurance, Symantec security software and the car pricing and information site TrueCar, abruptly announced plans to cut ties with the organization.', 'The actions continued on Saturday. Delta and United Airlines both issued statements saying they were ending discount programs with the N.R.A. and would ask the association to remove their information from its website.', 'Over the last couple of years, social media has become the preferred vehicle for the rise of consumer activism, turning the everyday purchase of dresses or shoes or, now, renting a car or buying insurance, into a form of protest or demonstration of ideology.', '“MetLife didn’t shoot anyone, but I just can’t pay them,” Clark Bacon, a research assistant at a children’s hospital, said in an interview Friday morning, after posting about his frustration on the company’s Facebook page. He had pledged to cancel his MetLife auto and home insurance package, for which he spends nearly $9,000 a year, after learning that the company offered N.R.A. members pre-negotiated discounts.', 'For companies like MetLife that are caught in the middle of these angry social media storms, actions tied to divisive social issues can be a lose-lose proposition. A year ago, Nordstrom first faced calls for a consumer boycott because it carried the Ivanka Trump line of clothing. But it quickly drew another round of boycott cries from the other side of the ideological spectrum when it quietly stopped selling her products.', 'Marketing experts say it’s difficult to determine whether calls for boycotts can truly have an impact on a company’s business. Rather, they say, once-angry customers either forget or move on to the next event or debate.', '“Memories fade. The intensity of the feelings that people have on this subject right now will feel different one month or five months from now,” said Maurice Schweitzer, a professor of operations, information and decisions at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.', 'In the aftermath of nearly all of the mass shootings in the United States, there have been attempts to pressure lawmakers and companies that manufacture or sell guns to change. After the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, both the California’s state pension fund and the California teachers pension fund divested their stakes in gun manufacturers.', 'And after a gunman used an accessory called a bump stock in a mass shooting in Las Vegas last October, two retailers, Walmart and the outdoors store Cabela’s, removed the products from their websites.', 'But in the days since the Florida school shooting, the push for boycotts and meaningful change has mobilized faster than with previous mass shootings. Professor Schweitzer noted that reflected the fact that the survivors are teenagers who are well versed in the usage and power of social media.', 'On Twitter, the hashtag #stopNRAmazon was a rallying cry aimed at pressuring Amazon to stop streaming content from NRATV, the gun group’s online video channel. The effort quickly drew support from Hollywood as actors like Alyssa Milano, Denis O’Hare, Evan Handler and Misha Collins posted on social media in support of the campaign; several noted that Amazon prohibits the sale of firearms on its e-commerce site.', 'Amazon did not respond to a request for comment.', 'Leading retailers including Cabela’s, Walmart and Bass Pro Shops also came under renewed boycott calls on Twitter for selling guns or sponsoring N.R.A. events. The retailers did not respond to emails seeking comment.', 'Still, in some cases, the rapid assembly on Twitter and Facebook may have resulted in a speedy response. In less than 24 hours, at least eight companies that had offered N.R.A. members discounts or special deals announced plans to separate or end affiliations with the organization, including Hertz, Enterprise and Avis Budget; SimpliSafe, which gave N.R.A. members two months of free home security monitoring; and North American and Allied Van Lines.', '“North American and Allied Van Lines no longer have an affiliate relationship with the N.R.A. effective immediately,’’ the company said in an emailed statement. “We have asked them to remove our listing from their benefits site.”', 'Even companies that do not have ties to the N.R.A. nevertheless rushed to distance themselves from the group. Wyndham Hotels said in a statement that it ended its relationship with the trade group in late 2017. Best Western Hotels & Resorts tweeted to dozens of customers that it “does not have an affiliation with and is not a corporate partner” of the N.R.A.', 'Earlier this week, lists of companies that were part of the N.R.A. membership program began circulating over Facebook and Twitter. A Change.org petition asked 25 companies, including North American Van Lines and the hearing aid company Starkey Hearing Technologies, to break their connection with the N.R.A. The petition had more than 1,100 signatures by midday Friday.', 'With lists of companies circulating widely, Facebook users swarmed the profiles of Avis, MetLife and others, announcing their plans to end their patronage and switch to competitors.', 'Rob Bradford, a designer who travels frequently, said Friday morning he would take the $600 he spends each year renting vehicles from Avis to competing rental companies if Avis did not disavow the N.R.A.', '“I know that boycotts work, especially in the age of social media,” he said. “I will go out of my way to avoid businesses associated with that group even if that means spending more money.”', 'By Friday afternoon, Avis Budget Group, which owns the car rental companies Avis and Budget, said it had decided to end its discount partnership with the N.R.A., effective on March 26, according to a representative.', 'Late Thursday, the First National Bank of Omaha, which calls itself the largest privately owned bank holding company in the country, said that it would not renew its contract with the trade group to issue an N.R.A.-branded credit card.', 'The card had been advertised as “the official credit card of the N.R.A.,” and cardholders were offered a $40 credit with their first purchase.', 'But the move drew strong, even extreme, reaction on the bank’s Facebook page.', '“You are doing the right thing by dropping the NRA,” one user wrote. “They are a hate group with blood on their hands. Thank you for walking away from them.”', 'But the opposing viewpoint was evident as well. “I discontinued my account with you last night for discontinuing the relationship with the NRA,” another user wrote. “I will encourage all NRA members and gun supporters to do the same. There are 100 million gun owners and 5 million NRA members. Good luck.”', '• President Trump broke with precedent by delivering a speech at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on Friday, saying that “America first is not America alone.”', '• Mr. Trump said earlier Friday that a New York Times report that he had ordered the firing of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, was “fake news.”', '• The president said separately that he thought he could persuade hard-liners in his party to accept a proposed immigration compromise.', '1. Mr. Trump wants to be known as a businessman-president. His speech to one of the world’s most global meetings was almost entirely about how he is making the United States more attractive to investors. “America is open for business, and we are competitive once again,” he said.', '“Historically I guess there’s never really been a businessman or business person elected president,” Mr. Trump said. “It’s always been a general or a politician.”', ' 2. The president made barely any mention of geopolitics, or major international issues like climate change. China was not noted at all. Nor was India, nor Iran nor even Europe.', 'Mr. Trump did, however, soften some of his nationalist rhetoric. He said he would “always put America first, just as the leaders of other countries should put their countries first.”', '“But America first does not mean America alone,” he continued. “When the United States grows, so does the world.”', '3. Mr. Trump predicted the recently passed tax cuts — including a reduction in the corporate tax rate to 21 percent from 35 percent — would result in billions of dollars in new investments and jobs.', 'The actual impact remains unclear. But the president claimed that several business leaders had made such promises to him in private meetings.', '4. The president can stick to the script when he wants to. He read his entire speech carefully from a Teleprompter and did not go off-message — a tendency that has gotten him into trouble in the past.', 'Still, he could not resist referring to “fake news” outlets in a brief question-and-answer session after his speech.', '“It wasn’t until I became a politician that I realized how nasty, how mean, how vicious, and how fake the press can be,” he said.', '5. There is at least one new way for companies to curry favor with Mr. Trump: giving their workers payouts related to the tax cut.', 'The cascade of bonuses, the president said, had been “like a big, beautiful waterfall.”', 'Of note: One company he specifically mentioned was the telecommunications giant AT&T, which is locked in a legal battle to get approval of its merger with Time Warner. —REBECCA BLUMENSTEIN', 'Speakers at the World Economic Forum usually celebrate globalization, praise diversity and decry climate change. So Friday’s speech by President Trump, who has at times voiced skepticism on all three stances, was warily awaited by the assembled business and government leaders.', 'They need not have worried.', 'Sounding more like the businessman he used to be than the outspoken populist he has become, Mr. Trump delivered a broad endorsement of recent Republican tax legislation. He said he favored free trade, provided that abusive trade practices by other countries were curbed. And he emphasized the importance of raising the prosperity of all Americans, particularly mentioning low unemployment among African-Americans.', 'But almost completely missing from his remarks was the sometimes confrontational nationalism of his election campaign and many of his tweets.', 'Mr. Trump instead portrayed the United States and other nations as having common interests.', 'He said that the United States was “lifting up forgotten communities,” and was fulfilling the dreams of Americans for “a great job, a safe home and a better life for their children.”', 'The president also took credit for rising share prices: “The stock market is smashing one record after another.”', 'Mr. Trump took visible delight in talking about companies that have already responded by offering bonuses to their workers. The rapidity with which companies acted, Mr. Trump said, was “something we didn’t anticipate.”', 'But discerning the future direction of American economic policy, and particularly American trade policy, was hard to do from Friday’s speech, as Mr. Trump instead appeared to be providing a broad vision of leadership. “I think I’ve been a cheerleader for our country,” he said. —KEITH BRADSHER', '• For more on the intersection of business and policy at Davos, check out the DealBook Briefing.', 'During his speech, President Trump zeroed in on a recent announcement by Apple that it would bring the bulk of its foreign earnings back to the United States under a lower tax rate passed as part of the recent tax reform. Apple had said it estimated it would have a $350 billion impact on the American economy over the next five years.', 'How much of that goes beyond what Apple would have spent anyway?', 'The technology company’s current pace of spending in the United States is $55 billion for 2018, so it was already on track to spend $275 billion over the next five years. After a $38 billion tax payment for repatriating money is subtracted, that leaves its new investment at roughly $37 billion over the next five years.', 'How much of that, if any, would go toward manufacturing was unclear. Apple has said it plans to open a new domestic campus that, at least initially, will house technical support for customers. More than $10 billion of planned capital expenditures will go toward American data centers. More than 20,000 new jobs will be spread across facilities old and new. —TIFFANY HSU', 'Upon arrival at the Congress Center in Davos, President Trump was greeted by a scrum of the forum’s participants snapping cellphone photos and a large group of reporters asking why he had ordered the firing last June of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, as The New York Times reported.', '“Fake news, folks,” Mr. Trump replied. “Fake news. A typical New York Times fake story.” —ELISABETH BUMILLER', 'While he is meeting with world leaders, President Trump is still partly focused on negotiations back home over immigration, asserting in an interview that he thought he could win over hard-liners in his party to a compromise deal.', 'He mentioned, in particular, Senators Tom Cotton of Arkansas, David Perdue of Georgia and John Cornyn of Texas, and Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia. “These are people that really have shifted a lot,” he told CNBC. “They’ve really shifted a lot and I think they’re willing to shift more, and so am I.” —PETER BAKER', 'The president expressed regret for sharing anti-Muslim videos originally posted by an ultranationalist fringe group in Britain, but he made no apology on Friday for calling African nations “shithole countries,” or some variant of that phrase.', 'Mr. Trump said that when he retweeted the videos, which portrayed Muslims as violent attackers, he knew nothing about Britain First, the group that had originally posted them.', '“If you are telling me they’re horrible people, horrible, racist people, I would certainly apologize, if you’d like me to do that,” Mr. Trump told Piers Morgan of the British broadcaster ITV, in an interview scheduled to air on Sunday.', 'The rare expression of repentance — one of Mr. Trump’s rules is “never apologize” — came as the president sought to patch up a badly strained relationship with Britain.', 'But Mr. Trump’s contrition and efforts at fence-mending went only so far: He ignored reporters’ questions on Friday about his derogatory remarks about African countries this month.', 'During a meeting with lawmakers, the president had said he thought the United States should accept more immigrants from countries like Norway, rather than Haiti or “shithole countries” in Africa, according to multiple reports. Mr. Trump has disputed the reports and some have suggested that he actually said “shithouse countries.”', 'After the remark was made public, Paul Kagame, president of Rwanda and chairman of the African Union, issued a statement demanding a retraction and “an apology to not only the Africans but to all people of African descent around the globe.”', 'Mr. Trump and Mr. Kagame met on Friday, shortly before Mr. Trump’s scheduled address to the World Economic Forum.', 'Mr. Kagame said that he had “good discussions” with Mr. Trump about the economy and trade, and he thanked Mr. Trump for his support. But the Rwandan leader made no mention of the furor over the comments. —PETER BAKER', 'PARIS — The phone rings a lot at Paris Region Entreprises, a one-stop shop for companies deciding whether to move employees to the City of Light. Typically, callers ask about visas and minutiae of employment law. But not long ago, an executive from Japan called with a stumper: Where, he asked, are the dancing clubs?', '“It was a certain kind of club that nobody here had ever heard of,” said Robin Rivaton, the organization’s chief executive. “Kind of a social club for executives and their wives. One of the guys here called around and found one in the western part of Paris.”', 'Until recently, this kind of personal service was unimaginable. France has long been known for its open hostility to corporations and its suspicion of personal wealth. Taxes were high, regulations were baffling and “It’s not possible” was the default answer to any question — if a company could even find the right person to ask.', 'Now, the country is in the midst of a sweeping attempt at national rebranding. Labor laws are being changed to make hiring and firing easier. New legislation has slashed a “wealth tax” that was said to drive millionaires out of the country. Courts with English-speaking judges are in the works, and a new international school is under construction to cater to the children of foreign executives.', 'There’s a sense of urgency behind these changes. Hundreds of financial companies may need to relocate thousands of London-based workers before Britain leaves the European Union by the end of March 2019, the withdrawal known as Brexit. Otherwise, these companies could lose their financial passporting rights, which grants them privileged access to the 27 countries that will remain in the European Union.', 'That has set off a high-stakes international competition among a handful of cities hoping to become Europe’s financial capital. Decision time is looming. The Brexit negotiation breakthrough announced on Friday merely solved preliminary issues that allow the next round of talks to commence. Under the current timetable, a final agreement must be signed well before the March 2019 deadline.', 'Paris is vying against Dublin, Frankfurt and Luxembourg in a pageant that is not primarily about beauty. What is prized most in boardrooms is an array of business-friendly laws, regulations and culture — the sort of warm welcome that Paris once defiantly refused to offer.', '“When you grow up in France, none of the heroes you learn about are entrepreneurs,” said Brigitte Granville, a professor of economics at Queen Mary University of London, who was raised in France. “When someone gets rich in France, people immediately ask, ‘What did he do to make this money? He must be a nasty person.’”', 'The origins of this attitude are usually traced to the French Revolution, which, Ms. Granville explained, elevated equality to a kind of religion. When François Hollande announced during his presidential campaign in 2012 that “My enemy is the world of finance,” he was summing up a fairly common sentiment.', 'Now, a new crop of French leaders, most notably the free market-supporting president, Emmanuel Macron, are vigorously trying to shed this anticapitalist reputation. During his campaign, he visited London, home to as many as 400,000 French expatriates, urging them to return to France and “innovate.” And since his election, the government has started a highly aggressive campaign to poach jobs from London.', 'It began the same day that the Brexit vote results were announced, on June 24 of last year. That afternoon, Paris Region Entreprises splashed banner ads on dozens of websites (“Choose Paris Region” was a not very catchy slogan). A few weeks later, 4,000 letters were mailed to companies around the globe.', 'By that October, officials with a business district in Paris had posted cheeky billboards in London’s airports and train stations, quipping, “Tired of the Fog, Try the Frogs!” Then came schmoozing and briefings. In February of this year, a delegation of French leaders in politics and business met with more than 80 executives on the 37 floor of the Shard, a landmark building in the center of London.', 'The French government also appointed Christian Noyer, a former Bank of France governor, to be the country’s Brexit point man. A born diplomat, he cannot be baited into belittling the competition, beyond calling Frankfurt “small and provincial,” hastening to add, “some people may like that.”', 'He rarely promotes what is most celebrated about Paris, like its gorgeous streetscapes and stellar restaurants, but he believes they will factor, at least a little, into some companies’ relocation decisions.', 'A company can send staff members to any city they want, Mr. Noyer said, during a brief interview in the lobby of a London hotel. “But if they have a competitor who is going to a nicer place, the best staff might, if they are offered a job in a better city, leave after a few months.”', 'Local politicians have predicted that 10,000 Brexit-related jobs will eventually move here, creating another 10,000 indirect jobs. Whether the city will come close to that figure is unclear, but a handful of announcements suggest that Paris is at least in the game.', 'HSBC said this summer that it might move 1,000 employees to Paris from London. In September, Bank of America was in talks to lease office space not far from the Arc de Triomphe, with plans to initially move 300 employees there.', 'Within France, the legislative changes and Brexit efforts have their share of critics, many of whom consider it further evidence that Mr. Macron is the “president of the rich.”', '“The idea that companies won’t settle in France because of high taxes is a false argument, that they tell us to pass policies that are difficult to justify in the eyes of the population,” said Alexandre Derigny a spokesman for the General Confederation of Labour, a group of trade unions.', 'France’s economic makeover has inspired some derision outside of the country, too. It has the faint smell of desperation to people like Nicolas Mackel, the chief executive of Luxembourg for Finance, a public-private partnership that promotes the country as a business hub. He is proud to say that the grand duchy has not resorted to the tactics deployed in Paris.', '“You’ll accuse me of bashing the French,” he said over tea recently, “but earlier this year, they announced that they would have regulators who speak English. We didn’t need to do that because our regulators already speak English and always have.”', 'For France, English-speaking government officials would be little more than a promising start. The country has so many bewildering layers of regulations that its system is known, unaffectionately, as mille-feuille, a reference to a densely layered pastry.', 'Some attempts to address this problem are happening behind closed doors. One of those doors is on the fourth floor of the French Finance Ministry, an immense Brutalist building that is home to thousands of civil servants and acres of standard-issue offices.', 'A room here was recently renovated to look like the brainstorming space of a start-up. The Bercy Lab — “Bercy” is the nickname of the ministry — has sleek furniture and whiteboards, along with a few touches that seem a bit goofy. A sign on the entrance door reads, in French, “On your mark, get ready, innovate!”', 'Since the lab opened in October, executives have been conferring with members of Parliament on drafting a wide-ranging law to improve the business environment, expected to pass next year. Among the participants is Eric Kayser, founder of the Maison Kayser chain of bakeries. As mundane as such face-to-face discussions might sound, they are a first.', '“It’s really useful,” says Alice Zagury, president of the Family, a firm that invests in European start-ups and another Bercy Lab participant. “And it’s what we need to do in France — to participate, to feel responsible, and not to believe that the government will fix everything.”', 'But the ministry also offers a public reminder of one of Paris’s enduring draws: great food. Ten chefs cook here every weekday in a 5,400-square-foot kitchen under the direction of Bruno Gricourt, who once worked at Michelin-starred restaurants. Executives who visit for Brexit-connected discussions, and stay for a meal, feast on Mr. Gricourt’s menu — which changes daily.', '“Grilled scallops with an emulsion of pumpkin and fresh hazelnuts,” he said, describing an appetizer he had made that day. “A very simple preparation that respects the ingredients.”', 'It could take years for France to truly alter its image, if it is able to at all. But in addition to the commitments already made by several banks, there are small signs of a payoff.', 'In a mid-November Twitter post, Goldman Sachs’s chief executive, Lloyd C. Blankfein, praised the French government’s commitment to economic changes, describing them as “first steps.”', '“Struck by the positive energy here in Paris,” he wrote. And just to underscore what his audience already knew, he added, “And the food’s good too!”', 'Good Wednesday. Here’s what we’re watching:', '• The fallout from the Presidents Club dinner is growing.', '• An awkward dinner shared by Travis Kalanick and Dara Khosrowshahi at the World Economic Forum.', '• Qualcomm’s big fine by the E.U.', '• Tech giants’ struggles in Washington.', '• The fight atop Och-Ziff.', '• Katerra, a construction start-up, wins the backing of the SoftBank Vision Fund.', 'Want this in your own email inbox? Here’s the sign-up.', 'The Presidents Club dinner was a little-known charity event held at the posh Dorchester Hotel until yesterday, when the FT published a scathing investigation into the all-male-attendee event. What the news outlet discovered from its undercover reporting was what it described as a bacchanalia filled with drinking — and the groping of women hostesses.', 'From the article by Madison Marriage, who said she, while working undercover, had been harassed:', 'Here’s what Anne Milton, an education minister, said of the event in a session of Parliament today:', 'The responses ', '• The Presidents Club said that it would not host any more events.', '• WPP, which had bought a table at the event over the years, said early today that it had ended its association with the event.', '• An organizer of the event, the businessman David Meller, has stepped down from a nonexecutive chairman position at the Department of Education.', '• British lawmakers demanded that companies that had attended the event publish their employee gender ratios quickly.', '• The Bank of England said that Mark Carney would not follow through on a lunch that was auctioned off at the dinner.', '• Reporters began looking into the charity’s public financial reports, and were left unimpressed:', '• Britain’s charity overseer has begun an investigation into the allegations of sexual harassment.', '— Michael J. de la Merced', 'Here at Davos, people are buzzing about businesses’ need to do good for society. (There’s an Equality Lounge on site at the World Economic Forum, and attendees are still talking about BlackRock’s new initiative.) And the singer Usher is here for a celebration of what would have been Nelson Mandela’s 100th birthday.', 'Travis Kalanick is at the World Economic Forum. He doesn’t have an official attendee badge, but he made the rounds at dinners and parties last night.', 'Of course, officially invited is Uber’s current C.E.O., Dara Khosrowshahi, who was on a panel discussion that Andrew moderated yesterday. (Mr. Khosrowshahi told CNBC that his relationship with his predecessor was “fine, but strained.”)', 'Where it got awkward: Both men attended a dinner hosted by Jack Ma of Alibaba, according to our spies. They sat on opposite ends of the table.', 'More from the Swiss Alps', '• As President Trump prepares to fly to the World Economic Forum, he is likely to feel vindicated coming to a club of elites that had long scorned him. (NYT)', '• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin argued that a weaker dollar is a good thing. (CNBC)', '• The #MeToo movement has sparked new discussions on gender equality. (NYT)', '• Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India urged attendees to embrace globalization and fight climate change. He is one of several world leaders expected to push back against Mr. Trump’s more nationalistic agenda. (NYT)', '• China’s point person here is Liu He, the architect of his government’s economic policy. (Bloomberg)', '• David Rubenstein of the Carlyle Group is worried that people aren’t worried. (CNBC)', '• The fashion industry is shaping the agenda of the World Economic Forum. (NYT)', 'The slide in the American dollar gained momentum Wednesday after Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said a weaker dollar was good for the United States.', 'Robert Rubin, who served as Treasury Secretary in the Clinton Administration, was sharply critical of Mr. Mnuchin’s comments.', '“I’ve always felt that our self interest was in having a strong dollar,” Mr. Rubin said in an interview in his office at the Council on Foreign Relations, where he is chairman emeritus.', 'The best way for United States companies to compete globally, Mr. Rubin said, is for them to be “productive, efficient, and effective.” And the best way for the government to help them do that, he said, is through investments in education, infrastructure and other programs that improve the country’s long-term competitiveness.', '“Promote our ability to export by our investments in our economy,” Mr. Rubin said, “not by weakening our terms of trade.”', 'Abandoning the United States’ longstanding strong-dollar policy, Mr. Rubin said, would carry risks to both the United States economy and the global financial system.', '“A loss of confidence in our currency could also undermine our interest rate markets and our equities markets,” he said. A strong-dollar policy, by contrast, will “maintain the confidence of the world in our currency and our economy.”', '— Ben Casselman', 'The big fine from European antitrust regulators bolsters Margrethe Vestager’s standing as perhaps the world’s most aggressive overseer of tech companies.', 'More from Chad Bray of the NYT:', 'The Democratic Party once embraced Silicon Valley. But with questions arising about the power of companies like Google and Facebook — as well as the role they played in Russia’s interference with the 2016 election — politicians and activists alike are calling for tighter scrutiny and regulation.', 'More from Cecilia Kang and Daisuke Wakabayashi in the NYT:', '(Democrats are also pressing for disclosures into whether Russian bots are helping to manipulate public opinion on Robert Mueller’s investigation.)', 'Meanwhile, frenemies are applying pressure. AT&T is arguing that net neutrality rules should apply to Facebook and Google if they are to be applied to broadband service providers.', 'The tech flyaround', '• Airbnb’s C.E.O., Brian Chesky, and its C.F.O., Laurence Tosi, are increasingly disagreeing over strategy as the company prepares for a potential initial public offering next year. (The Information)', '• Read Facebook’s user survey on the trustworthiness of news publications. (BuzzFeed)', '• The $100 million sale of Practice Fusion, a medical records start-up, made its executives millions but left employees with nothing. (CNBC)', '• The Senate minority leader, Chuck Schumer, said that funding for the White House’s proposed border wall is off the negotiating table as Democrats and Republicans resume negotiations over the fate of the young immigrants known as Dreamers. (NYT)', '• The Senate confirmed Jerome Powell as the Federal Reserve’s next chairman, by 84-13. (The Hill)', '• Both Attorney General Jeff Sessions and James Comey, the former F.B.I. director, answered questions from Robert Mueller as part of the special counsel’s investigation. And Mr. Trump reportedly asked Andrew McCabe, the F.B.I.’s deputy director, how he voted in the 2016 election as the White House weighed replacements for Mr. Comey. (NYT, WaPo)', '• Have Mr. Trump’s solar panel tariffs endangered the industry in the U.S.? (NYT)', '• Representative Patrick Meehan, Republican of Pennsylvania, denied harassing a much-younger aide but admitted that he responded poorly when he learned that she had a boyfriend. (NYT)', 'What was supposed to be a seamless transition from Dan Och to his heir apparent, Jimmy Levin, has become a cold war within the $33 billion hedge fund, according to the WSJ.', 'Now Mr. Och has indicated that he does not want the younger executive to take over. Och-Ziff is interviewing outside candidates for C.E.O. Mr. Levin is thinking about leaving. And some investors are considering withdrawing money amid the turmoil.', 'What happened: As Mr. Levin grew in stature, he began to press for more responsibility and money, irritating his mentor, the newspaper reported.', 'More from Greg Zuckerman and Rob Copeland of the WSJ:', 'Here’s what Disney, Verizon and JPMorgan Chase are doing:', '• Disney will spend $175 million on cash bonuses and a new education initiative.', '• Verizon will give out stock awards to employees that could total more than $400 million.', '• JPMorgan will spend $20 billion over the next five years on hourly wage raises, bigger philanthropic giving and more bank branches in economically disadvantaged areas.', 'The bigger picture', 'From Jim Tankersley of the NYT:', 'The Japanese giant’s Vision Fund has led an $865 million investment in Katerra, a three-year-old construction firm. It’s the latest big bet by SoftBank.', 'Katerra — founded by the former Flextronics C.E.O. Michael Marks, the Silver Lake co-founder Jim Davidson and the real estate investor Fritz Wolff — is essentially a one-stop shop for offices and apartment buildings, from architectural design through actual construction.', 'The bigger picture: Katerra wants to go public eventually, Mr. Marks, told Michael. “Over time, we expect that we might get offers — but this is intended to stay an independent company,” he said. “This will be a public company at some point.”', '• ComScore, which had been under pressure from Starboard Value, has hired Goldman Sachs to explore a sale, according to unidentified sources. (Bloomberg)', '• The parent company of the dating app Bumble has hired JPMorgan Chase to run a potential sale that could value it at $1.5 billion, according to unidentified sources. (CNBC)', '• JD.com is considering a public listing for its logistics business. (CNBC)', '• HNA Group is seeking outside investors for two Hong Kong properties that it bought last year for $1.8 billion. (Bloomberg)', 'The next big growth could be in Bitcoin spinoffs in which developers clone Bitcoin software, release it with a new name, a new coin and perhaps new features. The clones have included Bitcoin God and Bitcoin Pizza.', 'More on the phenomenon from Olga Kharif of Bloomberg:', 'In other virtual currency news: Stripe is ditching Bitcoin as a payment method. And here’s a profile of Brandon Chez, the man behind CoinMarketCap.com, a top source of market data for digital currencies.', '• Anthony Noto is leaving Twitter to become SoFi’s C.E.O. Shares in the social media company fell 2.5 percent after the announcement. (NYT)', '• Facebook’s chief marketing officer, Gary Briggs, is retiring to advise companies like Lending Club and to become more active helping Democrats in upcoming elections. (Recode)', '• Uber has hired Bo Young Lee from the financial services firm Marsh as its first chief diversity officer. (Recode)', '— Overheard by a DealBook tipster at Davos.', '• Donations are being pulled by the likes of WPP from the Presidents Club Charitable Trust after an FT investigation revealed sexual harassment of women at its men-only charity dinner. (FT, FT)', '• Companies in France have not waited to take advantage of new rules in the country’s labor overhaul that make it easier to hire and fire employees. But other changes designed to cushion the blow, like retraining programs, have not yet been put into place. (NYT)', '• Steve Varsano — the owner of Jet Business, whose retail space in London is the world’s only walk-in storefront jet dealership — sees President Trump’s election as a harbinger of great things for his industry. (NYT)', '• When it comes to fighting climate change, the idea that countries can be cajoled into cutting emissions further or that laggards can be shamed into falling into line is just wishful thinking, Eduardo Porter writes. (NYT)', '• Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies and Kleenex, is laying off about 13 percent of its work force and shedding factories amid declining birthrates and a retail price war. (NYT)', '• Toys “R” Us plans to close about 180 stores in the United States as it seeks to exit from bankruptcy proceedings. (WSJ)', '• The Department of Education plans to offer students prepaid bank cards that would hold loan money that is not needed for tuition, giving the government and financial services providers a peek at students’ spending. (NYT)', 'We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.']