['“I don’t believe in blackmail, and I’m sorry to use such a dirty word, but that’s almost what it tastes like.”', 'SAM MASSELL, a former mayor of Atlanta, on Georgia lawmakers’ threat to kill a tax break for jet fuel after Delta Air Lines said it was ending a promotional discount to the National Rifle Association.', 'CLEVELAND, Miss. — Storage trailers, an idle dump truck and portable toilets surround the hotel construction site. A sign announces “opening fall 2017,” but residents say they haven’t seen significant activity for months.', 'It does not look like much, but the unfinished development in this small Mississippi Delta town stands as the only major new deal by the Trump family business since President Trump took office in January.', 'When the president turned over daily operations of the Trump Organization to his eldest sons, Eric and Donald Jr., they spoke excitedly about picking up where their father left off.', 'But the crawl toward completing the hotel here reflects how difficult it has been for the company to expand its footprint with Mr. Trump in the White House. The Trump Organization has taken on a distinctly un-Trump-like feel this year: Its ambition for new development is subdued, and the signature showmanship for announcing deals is largely absent.', 'Six months before his election, President Trump told The New York Times that his business had about 120 deals in the works worldwide. The company had just undergone a decade of significant growth, opening five-star hotels in Chicago, Las Vegas and Washington, and snatching up golf courses across the country. It had also signed marketing deals that attached the Trump name to luxury towers in global destinations like Istanbul, Manila and Panama City.', 'Today, the pipeline of potential deals sits at about 30, all in the United States, according to the company.', 'In an interview, Eric Trump said the company decided to focus primarily on its existing properties, which consist of 16 golf courses, a winery, seven stand-alone hotels and a portfolio of commercial real estate properties.', 'As a private, family-run business, the Trump Organization need not answer to shareholders, he said, so it had the freedom to slow new development. That also means the company does not have to disclose how well, or not well, it is performing financially, nor are the identities of partners in the pipeline publicly known.', '“We have the best properties in the world; they’re doing extraordinarily well,” he said, without providing details on the company’s financial performance. “And if we have to take a break for an eight-year period of time or a four-year period, then it is what it is.”', 'Eric Trump said his father’s presidency had complicated the company’s ability to start new deals. The company pledged not to pursue new foreign ventures, and it is vetting potential domestic deals to avoid controversy, retaining Bobby Burchfield, a Washington lawyer, to protect the Trumps from doing business with partners that might have conflicts of interest or checkered pasts.', 'Eric Trump, who has effectively assumed the role as the leading executive at the company, is also a much more cautious businessman than his father, people who work with the Trumps say.', '“Donald is very aggressive, and Donald pushed it while he was active — and they don’t have Donald now,” said Phil Ruffin, a billionaire casino owner who partnered with the Trumps on the Trump International Hotel Las Vegas. “The boys are doing as well as anybody could. I haven’t seen any difference, except they’re not really doing anything new.”', 'The difference in management styles partly reflects Eric Trump’s sensitivity to criticism of the company now that his father is in the White House. There is also the criminal investigation by special counsel Robert Mueller III, who may ultimately scrutinize aspects of the family business before he finishes his inquiry.', 'Since the sons took control of the company, the biggest new initiative has been the rollout of two domestic hotel brands, Scion Hotels and Resorts, a four-star line, and American Idea Hotels, a budget-friendly chain. The company recently posted websites for both chains.', 'But the Trumps have announced only one Scion business partner, the developers of the hotel here in Cleveland, a city of 12,000 about a two-hour drive from Memphis. The Trumps and their partners have delayed the project as they revised the construction plans.', 'This week, the partners applied for a new permit at Cleveland’s community development office, an indication that they were close to getting started again, said Brett Moorman, the co-director of the office, who has been fielding questions from the community about the status of the project.', '“Everywhere I go, whether in church or in public, someone says, ‘What’s going on with that hotel over there?’ I say, ‘Your guess is as good as mine,’” Mr. Moorman said in an interview at his office last week.', 'In a statement, the Trumps’ partner, Chawla Hotels, said construction “should recommence after the holidays” and were expecting the hotel to open in 2018.', 'Cleveland’s downtown strip is on a street called Cotton Row, named for the crops on nearby farms. The town is home to Delta State University and the recently opened Grammy Museum Mississippi, which showcases musical history and the deep local roots of the blues.', 'Local officials said they were eager to see the project finished to provide hotel rooms for visitors to these attractions.', '“We were looking forward to the doors opening up in 2017,” said Willie Simmons, a Democrat and Mississippi state senator who owns a local soul food restaurant, the Senator’s Place.', 'While the Delta has cultural richness, it is among the poorest regions in the United States — a federal judge last year ordered the town, which has a large African-American population, to desegregate its high schools and middle schools. The Scion in Cleveland is being built across the street from a strip mall and within walking distance of a Dollar General discount store, making it an unusual new market for the Trump Organization, which is known for luxury accommodations in major cities.', 'While Mississippi overwhelmingly favored President Trump in last year’s presidential election, the Delta leans Democratic. But politics has not been a major issue with the new hotel. Jay Burchfield, a self-described moderate, who owns the Lennys Subs franchise across the street from the future Scion, said the hotel was needed.', '“I don’t care whether it is Democrat or Republican — it is a hotel,” he said.', 'The Trump Organization plan is to negotiate licensing deals with hotel owners or developers and convert existing hotels to the Trump brands or build new ones. The upfront capital would be invested by its new business partners. In the case of the Scion hotels, the Trump Organization would manage the hotels.', 'In June, the Trumps announced the partnership with Chawla Hotels, which is run by the brothers Suresh and Dinesh Chawla, who own 17 hotels in the Mississippi Delta, including Comfort Inns and Hampton Inns. In addition to the Scion hotel in Cleveland, the Chawlas plan to convert three of their hotels into the first American Idea properties, but little has been said publicly about those plans, and the Chawlas declined to give an estimated completion date.', 'Their late father, V.K., an Indian immigrant, had received advice from Donald Trump decades ago, which helped jump-start the family business. During the presidential campaign, Suresh Chawla wrote a letter that appeared in several local newspapers about his father’s experience, which triggered a series of encounters with the Trumps that culminated with the Chawlas going into business with them.', 'The Chawlas were already building what was originally to be named the Lyric Hotel and Spa, the anchor of a real estate development, which included restaurants and entertainment space, called the West End District. They originally planned to open the Lyric this fall.', 'With the Trump deal, the project took on the name Scion West End. The Chawlas said they spent the past few months working with the Trump Organization to rework the design plans, including relocating the lobby to another building on the property that has not yet been built. (They are planning a total of nine buildings.)', 'The Chawlas, who are financing the reported $20 million project through a bank loan, would pay licensing and management fees to the Trumps. The Chawlas say “final costs are still being evaluated.”', '“It has been a fascinating experience,” the Chawlas said in response to written questions. The Trump Organization, they said, “is incredibly adept at taking ideas and helping us expand our knowledge base. The team has expertise in every area imaginable that a developer would want to tap into.”', 'The deal with the Chawlas cleared the Trump Organization’s vetting process, but other deals have had more trouble.', 'Bobby Burchfield, the Washington lawyer who serves as the company’s outside ethics adviser, scrutinizes the Trumps’ potential hotel partners, as well as transactions that involve a government agency and certain other business arrangements worth more than $2.5 million, among other things. In large part, his task is to verify that the terms are at market rate and that potential partners, and their sources of financing, are appropriate. Mr. Burchfield has said he will not approve deals that will otherwise “embarrass or diminish” the office of the presidency.', 'Mr. Burchfield, who represented George W. Bush in the 2000 Florida recount and was head of ethics for President George H.W. Bush’s re-election campaign, raised concerns about a potential Scion deal in Dallas, after it was revealed that a prospective business partner had ties to Russia and Kazakhstan, according to two people briefed on the process who were not authorized to discuss the private deliberations. The Trump Organization cut off negotiations with that potential partner in April.', 'Since then, Mr. Burchfield has raised questions about other potential deals, the people said. Those questions prompted the Trump Organization to delay or pull back from transactions.', 'The Trumps have also been cautious about sending potential deals to Mr. Burchfield until all of the lenders and investors are lined up, the people briefed on the matter said. The same caution has put off public announcements of possible deals.', '“Making sure every “i’ is dotted and every ‘t’ is crossed and everything is perfect — does that kill deals? One hundred percent,” Eric Trump said. “Is it the right thing to do when your father is commander in chief, 100 percent it is. Will we have to do it the day he is out of office? No we won’t.”', 'The Trump Organization pledged before Mr. Trump’s inauguration that it would not negotiate new overseas deals during his presidency, but it has proceeded with previously negotiated licensed developments in India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Dubai and elsewhere, projects that Eric Trump noted are of a much bigger scale than the Mississippi hotel.', 'Major work is underway on an almost-completed tower near Manila; a second golf course in Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Trump Tower in Punta Del Este, Uruguay; and residential towers in Mumbai and Kolkata, India. Other overseas projects are not moving as quickly. The company announced in 2015 that it would move ahead with the Lido resort project in Indonesia that would include a golf course, country club and luxury condominiums. A second project was scheduled for Bali, an Indonesia resort island. But only the Lido golf course is under construction.', 'In the United States, some hotel properties have soared since the election. The Trump International Hotel in Washington, a magnet for Republican officials and lobbyists, turned a nearly $2 million profit in the first four months of this year, records show. The company’s hotel in Las Vegas is also raking in money, Mr. Ruffin said.', 'Over all, the Trump Organization’s business portfolio brought in at least $597 million in revenue during his 2016 campaign and the first few months of his presidency, down about 3 percent from the prior period, according to the president’s most recent financial disclosure released in June.', 'Trump SoHo, the company’s hotel in a trendy area of Lower Manhattan, struggled since the election, in part a reflection of the oversaturated hotel market in New York City as well as a move by some professional sports teams to stop using the hotel. After the Trump Organization negotiated a buyout fee, the Trump name was removed from the hotel on Wednesday night and is under new management. It is now called the Dominick Hotel.', 'Further uptown in New York, the Trump Organization just opened two retail stores at Trump Tower, one selling Ivanka Trump’s handbags and jewelry and the other selling items featuring the Trump family logo.', '“Visit our brand new flagship store,” the sign in the Trump Tower lobby says, “for Trump apparel, accessories and more!”', 'TEHRAN — A Turkish business jet carrying eight passengers and three crew members crashed into a mountain in central Iran on Sunday, killing all on board, the Iranian authorities said.', 'The plane was carrying the daughter of a Turkish tycoon and seven of her friends on their way back to Turkey, the Turkish news media reported, just days after the jet took them to her bachelorette party in Dubai.', 'Turkey’s Transport Ministry said the plane belonged to Basaran Holding, which does business in sectors including construction, food, energy and finance, and is led by Huseyin Basaran.', 'His daughter, Mina Basaran, 28, had traveled to the United Arab Emirates to celebrate her coming wedding next month. She was part of the company’s board of managers and in line to run the business, according to The Associated Press.', 'Shortly before the plane dropped off the radar, the pilot requested to fly at a lower altitude, Iran’s Civil Aviation Authority told local news media outlets. Images on social media showed a large plume of black smoke emerging from the Zagros Mountains near Shahr-e Kord in Chaharmahal-Bakhtiari Province.', 'Melike Kuvvet, the captain of the jet, was one of the first female pilots in the Turkish military, before she resigned and started to work in the private sector, Turkish news media reports said.', 'The bodies of the passengers and crew could not yet be identified, a spokesman for Iran’s emergency services, Shahin Fathi, was quoted as saying by Iranian news agencies. DNA tests will be conducted to identify the dead.', 'After the crash was reported, Mr. Basaran went to Iran, the Turkish news media reported.', 'Ms. Basaran was posting images of her trip to her popular Instagram account, which has more than 58,000 followers. The final photo posted shows her with seven female friends, smiling in pink and white robes. Another image showed her aboard the plane with a large bouquet of flowers.', 'One of Istanbul’s biggest construction projects, Mina Towers, being handled by her father’s company, is named after her. Ms. Basaran was also active in fashion, appearing in Vogue Turkey and on the cover of another Turkish fashion magazine, Grazia.', '“We still don’t want to believe the news reports,” Levent Tuna, the general manager of Basaran’s construction company, told Hurriyet, a Turkish daily.', 'In February, a passenger aircraft carrying 66 people crashed during a blizzard into Mount Dena, near the Iranian city of Yasuj. Rescue operations took several days because of extreme weather conditions and insufficient preparedness by the emergency services.', 'Iran is a popular route for planes flying to the United Arab Emirates, as its airspace is much safer than that over other countries in the region like Iraq and Syria.', 'JUST THE FUNNY PARTS . . . And a Few Hard Truths About Sneaking Into the Hollywood Boys’ Club By Nell Scovell Illustrated. 311 pp. Dey St./Morrow. $27.99.', 'On the first day that Nell Scovell arrived at her office as a writer on “Late Night With David Letterman,” a new colleague stopped to greet her. They chatted amiably about mutual friends. And then he laid it out: “Before this is over,” he told her, “I will see a tampon fall out of your purse.”', '“I felt strangely shaken as he walked away,” Scovell writes in “Just the Funny Parts: … And a Few Hard Truths About Sneaking Into the Hollywood Boys’ Club.” The remark puzzled her for decades. Then, doing research for another book, she learned to identify it not merely as adolescent posturing from a man-child but as what she terms “stereotype threat.”', '“When members of a group are made aware of a negative stereotype, they are more likely to conform to that stereotype,” she writes — meaning that, if she believed the bunk that women aren’t funny, the co-worker singling out her gender might have killed her confidence and torpedoed her career. He did neither, though her time on “Letterman” was not a happy one. For that she places the blame on the boss, who later admitted on air that he’d had affairs with underlings. He was far from the only man who helped make the comedy-writing world so hostile to women. In “Just the Funny Parts,” Scovell, whose résumé includes stints on many zeitgeist-y shows, from “The Simpsons” to “Murphy Brown,” catalogs the men who should have been comrades and instead were antagonists. It’s not a short list. Early on, a comedy hero, Garry Shandling, told her, “You write like a guy,” and meant it as a positive.', 'No moment is too sacred to puncture: Scovell was invited to meet with Joss Whedon, the creator of “Buffy the Vampire Slayer” — then her favorite show on TV — about a staff position. She was 38 weeks pregnant at the interview. “Boy, are you fat,” Whedon said. (His producer followed up with, “Should I put down a tarp?”) She didn’t get the job.', 'If the sprinkling of sociological terms like “stereotype threat” sounds familiar, it’s because Scovell collaborated with Sheryl Sandberg on her study-laden blockbuster, “Lean In.” Sandberg, the Facebook executive, provides the TED Talk-ready foreword to “Just the Funny Parts,” writing that “whoever said feminists weren’t funny never met Nell.” (At her own mother’s funeral, Scovell, one of five siblings, held up an envelope and announced that it contained “the name of mom’s favorite child.”) A career in the entertainment industry — scaled like a jungle gym, not a ladder — meant Scovell lived “Lean In” long before she wrote it, Sandberg says. “Just the Funny Parts” is a record of her scramble, retrofitted with post-“Lean In” indignation. (She took Shandling’s words as a compliment at first.)', 'The bar for contemporary women-in-comedy books was set in 2011 with Tina Fey’s “Bossypants,” which managed advice that was both hilarious and accurate — no pigtails or tube tops at the office, no diet foods in meetings and cry at work if you must because “it terrifies everyone.” Scovell’s lessons are less jokey and more emotionally bare; she even confesses a few things that our feminist foremothers have taught us to keep buttoned up — like the lines that she crossed, too — which feels freeing. Over all, though, “Just the Funny Parts” functions best not when Scovell is recounting some backstage encounter on “The Smothers Brothers Comedy Hour” or “Newhart” but when she’s rankled. My first laugh came on Page 58, when Scovell, her contributions on a show once again ignored, asks a female co-worker: “Am I corporeal? You can see and hear me, right?”', 'Gender aside, her comedy bona fides are solid: Scovell is from a large, neurotic, bookish, mercilessly honest — though loving — Jewish family in Massachusetts. She went to Harvard and wrote for Spy magazine. With a few biographical tweaks, she could be Conan O’Brien. (The two intersected as writers on a short-lived ’80s talk show.) In typical overachiever fashion, even her failures — Scovell writes that she was too full of self-doubt to apply for The Harvard Lampoon — led her somewhere: She became a sportswriter for The Boston Globe, then moved to New York and got a staff job at Vanity Fair. But Scovell soon realized that her high-concept style was better suited for TV. “Writing for TV made way more sense than writing for magazines,” she says. “And by sense, I mean money.”', 'For aspiring writers, the book has just enough practical advice on story pitches and script editing to qualify as a how-to. “When I write, I feel like an optometrist, constantly flipping between lenses and asking: ‘Is this better? Is this?’ Slowly, the work comes into focus,” she explains. An appendix lists all of her jobs, from Lifetime movies to “NCIS,” and, more bracingly for those starting out, the dozens of scripts unproduced over her 30-year career. Along the way, she married an architect and had two sons, and she is brisk about the fact that her husband’s staying at home with the boys — carting them around to sets as she wrote, produced and directed — is what made her employable.', 'In her 40s and beyond, female executives kept her afloat, she says. Scovell built up a deep network of friends and allies, though strikingly, even in the photos of her gang, she is usually the only woman. The book is laid out like the old joke about the arc of a Hollywood career: Part 1: “Who is Nell Scovell?” Part 2: “Get me Nell Scovell!” Part 3: “Get me a younger, cheaper Nell Scovell!” And finally: “Who is Nell Scovell?”', 'Just as she is getting to that last stage, however, she meets Sandberg, whose spirit infuses this book: in the references to studies about how men are perceived as confident while women are taught to deflect credit, or in the anecdotes about how Scovell is judged on her presumed emotions rather than her actual abilities. When the two women worked together on “Lean In,” Scovell was overjoyed to find an outlet for her frustration — finally, here was data to back up her sense of inequity! — and for the reader, that emotional shift comes not a moment too soon, as one thing that’s sacrificed in her litany of miscreants is a larger sense of why she loves or even wants a career in entertainment anymore. “Running a show is like being beaten to death with your own dream,” a producer she worked with on the series she created, “Sabrina the Teenage Witch,” says.', 'There are career high points, too; I would have gladly read another chapter on the feminist platform presented by “Murphy Brown.” But through connections made at Facebook, “Lean In” brings an even more rarefied opportunity: writing jokes for President Obama. Finally, the payoff! Scovell is understandably giddy at crafting one-liners for the White House Correspondents Dinner, to be delivered by the leader of the free world — a man who just happens to know how to land a punch line.', 'There’s no time to wallow, now, in that era’s ending; there’s too much to fix. Though no doubt Scovell would have had it otherwise, the fact that “Just the Funny Parts” is landing at such a charged moment — when women are exquisitely, bruisingly fed up — may be a stroke of luck. In her introduction, Scovell does joke about calling the book “Just the Angry and Bitter Parts,” but says she hoped not to outright discourage young writers. Besides, she adds, “that would be an eight-volume set.”', 'About four years ago, Maximilian Büsser, founder of the boutique watch brand MB&F, bought his wife a 1970s Rolex Air-King for $2,500 on the website Chrono24. When it arrived, he was dismayed (though perhaps not shocked) to learn that he’d been conned.', '“The crown was not original, the dial was not original, the case was not original and the glass was not even glass but a piece of Plexi glued to it,” Mr. Büsser recalled. “Buying a pre-owned or vintage timepiece is extremely risky business. Most brands have turned their backs on the market and left it in the hands of a lot of individuals who are not to be trusted. It’s time to reclaim it.”', 'Come summer, the brand will do just that, when its website begins selling pre-owned MB&F timepieces offered mostly by customers. Mr. Büsser emphasized that the models will be limited editions no longer available at retail “because I don’t want my retailers to think I’m competing with them.”', 'As innocuous as his announcement may sound, it’s sure to prompt some soul-searching among watch executives this week at the Salon International de la Haute Horlogerie in Geneva. Unlike car manufacturers, which maintain networks of “certified pre-owned” dealers, watchmakers have long neglected the secondhand market, fearing both its strategic and logistical challenges.', 'Spurred by growing competition from a new, more trusted breed of online retailer, however, the Swiss houses have reached an inflection point in their relationship with used timepieces: regulate their distribution and sale or lose out to third-party dealers.', '“We have a multibillion-dollar market of pre-owned that is the opposite of under control,” said Aurel Bacs, the auctioneer who leads Phillips’ watch department through his consulting firm, Bacs & Russo.', 'He cited the example of someone buying a 20-year-old watch by Vacheron Constantin or Patek Philippe “from the internet.”', '“The brands don’t stand behind it because it hasn’t gone through their workshops, but they can’t be happy about it,” Mr. Bacs said. “Every watch that doesn’t satisfy the owner doesn’t reflect well on their brand.”', 'More important, industry experts say that every time a consumer sells or trades a fine watch — a phenomenon that happens with increasing regularity as a result of the information and price transparency now available online — the wearer’s next watch purchase is more likely to benefit the dealer that facilitated the transaction rather than the brand that manufactured the timepiece.', '“If you can create a certified secondary market then it’s going to change a lot of the dynamic in the gray market,” said Edouard Meylan, chief executive of the boutique Swiss brand H. Moser & Cie, which plans to start selling certified pre-owned models on its website this year. “Our responsibility is to ensure the long-term value of the products we sell.”', 'Jean-Claude Biver, president of the LVMH Watch Division and chief executive of Tag Heuer, said that the topic of pre-owned sales had preoccupied him over the past year, but that the brand’s first priority must be mastering e-commerce because the pre-owned business “will be run mostly through online.”', '“The secondhand market will be the next move,” he said, even as he acknowledged that the interest in pre-owned timepieces is still largely an American phenomenon. “I’m 100 percent sure we will do it. But I cannot tell you when.”', 'The German brand A. Lange & Söhne has been working on the secondhand sale issue for two and a half years, said its chief executive, Wilhelm Schmid. “I know in depth the challenges,” added Mr. Schmid, a former BMW executive. “Cash flow, markups, residual value, platforms to resell it. And on top of that you have to run your normal business. We are prepared to jump on it if necessary. But at the moment, I’d clearly label this as important but not urgent.”', 'The lack of urgency owes something to the fact that the secondhand market appears to be working reasonably well without the brands’ explicit involvement. Thanks to the proliferation of trustworthy websites specializing in pre-owned merchandise — including “never worn” models that come directly from brands’ overstock — people already have outlets to buy and sell used timepieces.', 'In November, for example, there was the debut of WatchBox, a global e-commerce platform for buying, selling and trading pre-owned luxury watches that is backed by CMIA Capital Partners, a Singapore-based private equity firm.', 'Equipped with sophisticated pricing algorithms and teams of in-house watchmakers, these e-tailers say it is only a matter of time before brands recognize the sites as allies in the pre-owned watch business.', '“Take the car industry about 15 years ago,” said Tirath Kamdar, who founded the pre-owned watch and jewelry site TrueFacet in 2014 with Chris Chan. “Back in the day, you’d go to these little used car lots and you brought your own mechanic. And it was a hassle. This is what we face now as you go up and down New York’s 47th Street, or eBay.”', 'With the help of Andrew Block, a former Tourneau executive who was named president of TrueFacet in June, Mr. Kamdar is working hard to convince Swiss brands that the secondary market will not cannibalize new watch sales. Instead, he said, it will grow their brands’ perceived value, especially among recycling-obsessed millennials.', '“The European brands don’t completely get the U.S. consumer,” Mr. Kamdar said. “They have been dependent on offline retail, and offline retail is shutting down at a great pace. The younger generation who has money — they’re not looking to shop the same way their grandparents did. They’re looking to buy pre-owned, not new.”', 'The Geneva-based independent watchmaker François-Paul Journe came to the same conclusion in November 2016, when he announced the F.P. Journe Patrimoine service, allowing buyers to purchase timepieces from collections that are no longer in production. The brand restores the watches as new and sells them again, complete with a three-year warranty.', 'The British watchmaker Bremont experimented with a similar concept in May, when it teamed with the pre-owned watch e-tailer Crown & Caliber for what they called a first-of-its-kind pilot program. For a month, consumers could use the website to exchange any of their timepieces, regardless of brand, for cash or for a store credit at the Bremont boutique in New York.', '“It came about because a lot of people are trading our limited editions,” said Giles English, co-founder of Bremont. “Ideally, they’d like to go into our boutique and buy a secondhand watch. So we talked to Crown & Caliber about formalizing something.”', 'Although the trial was a success, Mr. English said, it was just a test as the obstacles to a permanent secondhand business are considerable. “Everyone is walking on eggshells because they don’t want to upset their retail chain,” he said.', 'An even thornier issue, especially for brands guilty of overproducing inventory, is resolving their watches’ poor performance in secondary channels.', 'As Mr. Bacs said, “The absolute bitter truth is that some watches are selling above retail and some are selling at a fraction of retail — maybe 20 percent of the retail price — after five years. No manufacturer wants to tell that to its owner.', '“The fact that for 20 years we have all talked about it and nobody has yet found a solution means it’s tricky,” he said of the secondary market. “If a brand gets it right in today’s market, meaning they don’t lose money, they have revolutionized the landscape.”', 'BERLIN — Germany’s highest administrative court ruled on Tuesday that vehicles can be banned from some city streets as part of efforts to improve air quality in urban areas, a decision that could have far-reaching consequences for the country’s automakers and the diesel technology they promoted for decades.', 'Other European countries have taken measures to reduce the number of diesel-powered cars, but the technology is almost synonymous with Germany, where there are 15 million diesel cars on the streets and where automakers bet their futures on technology they billed as environmentally friendly, even as they rigged software in their cars to pass stringent emissions tests.', 'Environmental groups welcomed the Federal Administrative Court’s ruling, which was centered on efforts to limit emissions in Stuttgart but set a precedent for all cities in Germany. Although they predicted that bans could be in place in some cities by fall, many cities and automakers pointed to language in the ruling that suggested its ultimate effect was yet to be determined.', 'The ruling called for “proportionality,” stipulating that only older models with the highest emissions could be subject to such bans and that other considerations had to be taken into account, but automakers warned that allowing individual cities to set their own rules could result in confusion for drivers.', '“Volkswagen has to accept the Federal Administrative Court’s decision, but is unable to comprehend it,” the company said in a statement, adding that it was “unsettling for millions of motorists” and “completely unclear” how the decision could be implemented.', 'But Deutsche Umwelthilfe, an environmental and consumer rights organization that set the legal action in motion, cheered the ruling as a clear victory for residents of dozens of German cities who are suffering from respiratory and other health problems caused by air pollution.', '“The days of flooding the inner cities with poisonous diesel emissions are over,” said Jürgen Resch, managing director of Deutsche Umwelthilfe. “These vehicles have no place in our cities anymore.”', 'Frustrated with the lack of progress in improving air quality in about 70 of the country’s most polluted cities, the group brought lawsuits against several local governments, demanding that they uphold the air quality standards set by the European Union. In some instances, cities found that the only way to ensure those standards were met involved banning certain vehicles — mostly older diesel models — from city streets.', 'Mr. Resch said he expected the first bans to be enacted in the fall in German cities where pollution levels are highest. Those cities include Stuttgart, home to Porsche and Mercedes, as well as Düsseldorf, both of which were directly involved in the case.', '“Limited bans for certain diesel cars are within the law,” the court said in its ruling, as one way to allow cities to meet the limits on the emissions of nitrogen oxide established by the European Union in 2010.', 'The court further found that when emissions exceeded the allowed limits, banning all vehicles with diesel motors older than those approved in 2014 and gasoline-burning engines older than those approved in 2001 was the only way for the municipal authorities to ensure air quality.', 'In 2016, a lower court in Stuttgart ruled in favor of Deutsche Umwelthilfe’s argument that the only way to effectively reduce nitrogen oxide levels in urban areas was to keep off the streets those vehicles responsible for the pollution, most of them diesels.', 'But the state of Baden-Württemberg challenged the lower court’s ruling, and a court in North Rhine-Westphalia urged a higher court to weigh in, arguing that only the federal government had the right to enforce the European Union standards.', 'The ruling allowing such bans — already popular among Germany’s European neighbors — could open the floodgates, allowing for a raft of new measures in other cities across the country. But resistance to steps that curb drivers’ rights in Germany remains deeply rooted. Diesel technology was developed in the country, and it accounts for many of the 800,000 jobs in the German auto industry.', 'Ferdinand Dudenhöffer, a professor who runs an automotive research center at the University of Duisburg-Essen, warned the Germans who drive older diesel cars not to try to sell them, as the ruling was certain to send prices plunging. He criticized the government and auto industry for failing to take the problem of diesel emissions seriously enough when they met in Berlin in August.', '“Car and policymakers now need to put their heads together and finally come up with a solution for how we are going to get out of this mess,” Mr. Dudenhöffer said.', 'Chancellor Angela Merkel, whose government has been under pressure for years to take a stronger stance against the powerful auto industry, tried to soothe the concerns of diesel owners. “It only pertains to certain cities in which there is more negotiating to be done,” the chancellor said after the ruling. “But it certainly does not affect all of Germany and every person in the country who owns a vehicle.”', 'Municipal groups have warned that allowing bans could be fatal for inner cities, where delivery, repair and emergency workers, as well as many residents, rely on diesel-fired vehicles.', 'Diesel was sold for decades as a cleaner alternative to gas-fired engines on the argument that diesel cars were better for the environment because they burn fuel more efficiently and emit less carbon dioxide.', 'But in 2015, the United States authorities revealed that Volkswagen had duped consumers by rigging its vehicles to pass emissions tests: Software cut emissions during tests in a controlled environment but turned off under normal driving conditions.', 'Since then, the scandal has widened, most recently through revelations of a study in which VW forced monkeys to inhale fumes from a Beetle in an effort to prove they were not harmful.', 'At the meeting in August, the German government ordered all carmakers to fix the problem, and they responded by proposing software that would keep emissions at laboratory levels while driving on the open road. But environmental groups have argued that these have failed to sufficiently reduce pollution.', 'An alternative would be to retrofit some older vehicles, at a cost of 1,400 to 3,300 euros ($1,725 to $4,060), cutting diesel pollution by as much as 70 percent, according to Germany’s auto safety group, ADAC.', 'Customers are already turning away from diesel technology. The latest figures show a drop of more than 17 percent in the number of diesel-burning cars registered in January compared with December. The figures reflect a trend established in the previous year, and the authorities fear they indicate a threat to the industry.', 'Like Stuttgart and Düsseldorf, Munich is also considering a ban. They would join European cities including Madrid and Athens, which have said they will ban all diesel vehicles by 2025. Britain and France have also said they want to end domestic sales of new diesel vehicles by 2040.']