['Adwa Alsubaie had never cooked outside a home kitchen until last May. Two years after she and her sister fled their home in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, Ms. Alsubaie, 20, got a job in the kitchen at Emma’s Torch, a brunch spot in Red Hook, Brooklyn, that doubles as a culinary school for refugees and political asylum seekers.', 'There, she learned to prepare popular American dishes like avocado toast, as well as her own version of shakshuka, a Middle Eastern tomato stew — and to do it quickly, churning out four plates in five minutes.', '“I always wanted to be a chef, even before I came here to America,” said Ms. Alsubaie, who left her home country to escape its  treatment of women. “Here, in New York, I want to make a business.”', 'Ms. Alsubaie — now a line cook at the SoHo restaurant the Dutch — will join other asylum seekers, refugees and migrant chefs looking to further their professional prospects by preparing hundreds of appetizers, entrees and desserts for an event this weekend.', 'From Friday through Sunday, the Refugee Food & Art Festival will be held at the Food Arts Center of the nonprofit vocational organization Fedcap Rehabilitation Service, just a few blocks from the United Nations headquarters in Manhattan. The event is hosted by the food events platform Komeeda, with sponsors including Fedcap; Emma’s Torch; and the International Rescue Committee, a nongovernment organization that provides humanitarian aid and relief.', 'The festival will feature booths, installations, murals and performances, as well as hors d’oeuvres and meals prepared by the displaced chefs.', 'According to its founders, the festival — not affiliated with the Refugee Food Festival first held last year in Paris — is the next step in Komeeda’s Displaced Dinner Series, which assists migrants, including refugees and political asylum seekers, with financial need.', 'For more than six months, refugees and asylum seekers from Syria and Russia have cooked multicourse meals of crispy kibbe and juicy Bedouin chicken for as many as 50 diners at a time. In addition to earning extra income for their labor and sharing their life stories with guests, the chefs have received assistance from diners in job hunting or debt repayment, said Jabber Al-Bihani Jr., Komeeda’s co-founder and chief executive.', '“We saw the outreach, the ‘How can I help you? Do you need help getting an interview, a résumé?’” said Mr. Al-Bihani, 29. “And from these dinners, some of the refugees have gotten a ton of financial support, not just from the tickets, but also post-event.”', 'Nasser Jab, 34, a co-founder of the festival and a refugee from Palestine, said this week’s festival would be larger than the dinners, with a different focus. During the dinners, the migrants predominantly spent their time recounting how they wound up in America; at the festival, they will work to connect with attendees and form professional networks.', 'For some migrants, like Samer Daas, 43, a cheesemaker from Homs, Syria, this festival could be an important step toward success. After Mr. Daas fled the Syrian civil war with his wife, Rena, the couple resettled in Washington, D.C., nine months ago.', 'Today, Mr. Daas makes and sells a salty Syrian cow’s milk string cheese topped with black caraway seeds at food bazaars and markets in Washington. He explained, through a translator, that he hopes attending the festival will help him find stable employment, which has been difficult because of his limited English and a backward-bending knee that impedes his walking. Mr. Daas’s long-term goal is to support his family through cheesemaking.', '“My dream is to actually have an investor that will start an Arab goods store with me,” Mr. Daas said by telephone. “And eventually, I would make the cheese and sell all these different kinds of products.”', 'Hajer Naili, the communications and social media coordinator at the United Nations International Organization for Migration, said politicians and the news media often dominate the discussion about refugees and migrants. At the festival, she said, displaced people will be able to express their own views.', '“We’ve listened to fear mongers for so long, but not the refugees themselves,” Ms. Naili said. “We should stop and listen to what they have to say.”', 'Refugee Food & Art Festival, tickets $20 to 80, 210 East 43rd Street (Third Avenue), eventbrite.com.', 'ISTANBUL — Americans planning an impromptu visit to Istanbul have been turned back. Board members of one school have had to postpone meetings. A Turkish entrepreneur, after spending two years setting up a business in New York, finds herself in limbo, her visa appointment canceled.', 'The cases, though apparently relatively few, signal the potential for deeper disruptions since the United States and Turkey suspended visa services two weeks ago in a tit-for-tat dispute over Turkey’s detention of United States consular employees.', 'This week, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State Jonathan R. Cohen devoted a whole day to trying to resolve the dispute during a visit to Turkey, and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey expressed a desire to end the disagreement. But it appears far from over.', 'Alarmed at the arrest of two of its locally employed consular staff and the detention of the wife and daughter of a third employee, American officials are demanding assurances that its staff members will not be arrested for carrying out United States business.', 'They are also demanding that those already arrested be released unless Turkey can provide compelling evidence against them.', 'Until then, things remain frozen.', 'Both countries have allowed travelers visas on humanitarian grounds, and people holding existing visas can travel, but a few Americans have been refused entry at Istanbul airport, and more have had to cancel their trips.', '“It is having some impact on people’s plans for the mid- to long-term,” said Matthew Bryza, a former United States ambassador and chief executive of Lamor Corporation in Turkey.', 'He criticized the visa ban as the wrong tool, but said he was buoyed by the restraint in the language used by both sides to seek a resolution.', 'Thousands of Turks have had to suspend their plans, too. The visa shops and cafes lining the street opposite the United States Consulate in Istanbul were closed this week. A lone man typing in his office said there were no appointments at the consulate, so no business.', 'Up to 10,000 Turks a month are granted nonimmigrant visas to visit the United States, according to State Department figures, and 113,064 were granted in all of 2016. Nearly half a million Americans traveled to Turkey in 2016.', 'A fashion promoter was set to have her interview this week for an entrepreneur’s visa but was informed by email that her interview had been canceled. She asked that her name not be published but said she was dismayed that after two years of work and $100,000 of investment in an office in Manhattan’s trendy SoHo district, she faced new legal requirements and more paperwork reapplying in a third country.', 'Relations between Turkey and the United States have been strained since last year’s failed coup, which Turkey blames on Fethullah Gulen, an Islamist cleric who lives in self-imposed exile on a large estate in Pennsylvania.', 'Turkey has been upset by the United States’ perceived reluctance to extradite Mr. Gulen — the United States says Turkey has not provided evidence that would convince a federal judge — and by the United States’ arming of Kurdish forces in Syria, which Turkey fears will strengthen Kurdish separatists in Turkey.', 'The United States has been alarmed at the backsliding of democracy in Turkey in recent years under Mr. Erdogan and the mass arrests conducted since the failed coup that have even swept up a dozen United States citizens, some of whom have been in jail for over a year, and two longstanding Turkish employees of United States Consulates.', 'Hamza Ulucay, an employee with more than 30 years’ service at the United States Consulate in Adana, in southeastern Turkey, was arrested in March, accused of having ties to a terrorist organization. He is in jail awaiting a formal indictment.', 'Two weeks ago, Metin Topuz, who has worked at the Istanbul consulate for the Drug Enforcement Administration for over 20 years, was arrested on similar charges.', 'Days after his arrest, the Istanbul police searched the home of a third employee, Mete Canturk, who has also worked for years at the Istanbul consulate. He was not at home at the time, and officers then visited his wife’s family home in northern Turkey and detained his wife and daughter, who were attending the funeral of his wife’s father.', 'The recent detentions prompted the United States visa suspension, an unexpected and drastic action that seems to have halted the arrest of a third employee. Since the suspension, the Turkish police have not pursued Mr. Canturk, who has continued to work every day at the consulate.', 'But his wife and daughter were detained for more than a week in Amasya. They were released Monday evening on the eve of the arrival of Mr. Cohen, the State Department official, but remain under judicial control and cannot leave the country.', 'The American action followed a similar turn in German-Turkish relations several months ago, when Germany reacted to the arrests of several Germans in Turkey by threatening economic sanctions and restricting support for Turkey’s application for membership in the European Union.', 'Turkish officials have indicated that they want the visa suspension to end.', '“I don’t think that this is a problem that will drag on,” Mr. Erdogan said on Thursday. “This delegation is here to finish it. The talks are ongoing. My wish is for a result as soon as possible, leave the visa issue behind and that relations return to its normal situation.”', 'Yet, in other comments later the same day to a gathering of party supporters, Mr. Erdogan continued to rail against United States policy, in particular at perceived American reluctance to extradite Mr. Gulen.', '“They think we are strategic partners and that we will obey everything,” he said of American officials. “Now they are asking me to give them some people. But first you should give me the one in the ranch,” a reference to Mr. Gulen and his Pennsylvania home.', 'Going into talks Wednesday, Mr. Cohen told Turkish journalists that the United States was seeking assurances that Turkey would not detain consular employees for contacts made in the normal course of their work, and that it wanted the arrested employees to be released or to be shown compelling evidence of their wrongdoing.', 'Turkish officials have concentrated on lifting the visa ban, suggesting that it would be resolved soon but offering no promises on the detainees.', '“We will cooperate if their demands meet the rules of our constitution,” Turkey’s foreign minister, Mevlut Cavusoglu, said at a news briefing Wednesday. “But we will not succumb to impositions, and we will reject any conditions that we cannot meet.”', 'A senior presidential adviser, Ibrahim Kalin, later said that the visa ban would be resolved soon, but that details discussed would have to be referred back to Washington first.', 'By the fourth day of Mr. Cohen’s visit to Turkey, there was no announcement of an agreement.', 'BEIJING — President Trump’s $250 billion in Chinese business deals probably won’t be enough to stop a trade fight.', 'Mr. Trump met with his Chinese counterpart, Xi Jinping, in Beijing on Thursday, offering personal praise and qualified criticisms of China’s trade practices. China, in return, offered modest concessions on some thorny trade issues. The two sides also pointed to what they claimed were billions of dollars of deals between Chinese and American companies to show face-saving progress.', 'But behind the scenes, Washington and Beijing are gearing up for what may well be months of contentious relations between the world’s two largest trading partners.', 'After initially focusing this year on renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement and the United States’ free-trade pact with South Korea, Trump administration officials plan to pursue previous promises to investigate what they call Chinese theft of American intellectual property. Lawmakers also plan to intensify scrutiny of Chinese investments in sensitive areas of the American economy.', 'Mr. Trump hinted at coming tensions on those fronts on Thursday, saying he hoped to address “the chronic imbalance in our relationship as it pertains to trade.”', '“This includes addressing China’s market access restrictions and technology transfer requirements,” he said, “which prevent American companies from being able to fairly compete within China.”', 'Both countries face pressure to show their reasonable sides ahead of what could be a difficult fight.', 'Mr. Trump made harsh criticism of trade with China a centerpiece of his campaign for president and faces pressure to deliver on promises to level the playing field and close the yawning American trade deficit with China. At the same time, he is seeking China’s help containing North Korea, and on other issues.', 'Mr. Trump struck a somewhat more conciliatory tone in front of his Chinese hosts. While China’s trade practices are unfair, he said, that stemmed mainly from what he called the failings of his predecessors.', '“Right now, unfortunately, it is a very unfair and one-sided one,” Mr. Trump said of the two countries’ trading relationship. “But I don’t blame China, after all. Who can blame a country for taking advantage of another country for the benefit of its citizens?”', 'Mr. Xi faces his own pressures. Though he solidified his political base at a major Communist Party meeting last month, he must contend with a maturing economy now saddled with a mountain of debt. He is also leading an ambitious plan to upgrade China’s technological know-how — an effort that could be complicated by a trade fight with the United States.', 'The two sides took pains on Thursday to show common ground. The Chinese government announced near the end of Mr. Trump’s visit that it planned to reduce tariffs on imported cars and to open up its financial sector to greater competition. But Chinese officials offered no promises on when or how much they might be willing to move on either issue.', 'The Chinese offers represented a bid to strengthen support for a less assertive American trade policy by reaching out to two industries that have a lot to lose. One is Wall Street, which has profited handsomely from helping Chinese companies and the Chinese government to buy American companies and real estate. The other is Detroit’s automakers, which have seen strong sales in China of cars  built almost entirely in Chinese factories by Chinese workers and robots using Chinese parts. Thanks to Chinese tariffs, cars made in the United States are too expensive to compete broadly in China.', 'But the Trump administration’s negotiators made little attempt during the visit to seek such industry-specific promises, believing that previous efforts had resulted in little progress.', 'Instead, Mr. Trump oversaw on Thursday the signing of more than $250 billion in largely symbolic business deals.', 'Most of them appeared to be the kinds of deals that American companies have long struck in China.', 'Qualcomm, the chip maker, said on Thursday that it had struck deals with Chinese smartphone makers to sell them a total of $12 billion in components over the next three years. Qualcomm already counts on China for more than half of its revenue, and the deals it signed on Thursday were with existing customers.', 'Boeing said it had agreed to sell planes valued at $37 billion at list prices to Chinese customers. Financial terms were not disclosed. Air Products & Chemicals, an industrial gases company, said it would build a $3.5 billion plant with a Chinese partner to turn coal into gases, adding that it already supplied gases to the first phase of the project, in the Chinese city of Yulin.', 'Trump administration officials and some business executives said the deals would not have occurred without Mr. Trump’s visit. “This event helped make this one happen,” said Mitch Snyder, the president and chief executive of Bell Helicopter, a unit of Textron, which signed an agreement on Wednesday to deliver 50 five-person Bell 505 light-duty civilian helicopters built in Texas. He declined to disclose a price.', 'Errol D. Rice, the executive vice president and managing director of the Montana Stockgrowers Association, said that a $300 million beef deal signed on Wednesday with JD.com, a Chinese electronic commerce company, had happened only in the last few weeks. The Chinese ambassador to the United States had expressed interest in September, he said, and within three weeks JD.com was negotiating to buy $200 million worth of Montana beef over the next three years and to build a $100 million beef-processing facility in southern Montana.', 'One new agreement involved Alaskan natural gas. The state of Alaska signed a deal with Sinopec, a Chinese oil giant, and Chinese banks for the construction of a natural gas pipeline from near the North Slope of Alaska to a port, and for the construction of a liquefied natural gas loading terminal. China would then buy much of the gas, in a deal that American officials said could be worth $40 billion or more in the coming years.', 'But the agreement fell short of a deal.', '“We are really positive about this project, but what we are going to sign this time is a letter of intent for mutual cooperation, not a contract,” said Lu Dapeng, the press office director of Sinopec. “The area definitely has the resources, but it still requires extensive research and analysis to determine how big is the market and then to decide on the scale of the final cooperation accordingly.”', '“This needs time,” Mr. Lu added.', 'The next potential battle between the Trump administration and business leaders is near, and it’s on immigration.', 'The White House is weighing whether to end Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, the popular program that suspended deportation of undocumented workers who had arrived in the United States as children. Right now, President Trump is leaning toward ending the program, according to Axios.', 'Late on Thursday, a big group of top business leaders posted an open letter to Mr. Trump and congressional leaders arguing against the move.', '“Dreamers are vital to the future of our companies and our economy. With them, we grow and create jobs,” the leaders wrote. “They are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage.”', 'Among the hundreds of signatories:', '• Warren E. Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway', '• Tim Cook, Apple', '• Jeff Bezos, Amazon', '• Mark Zuckerberg and Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook', '• Sundar Pichai, Google', '• Laurene Powell Jobs, Emerson Collective', '• Satya Nadella and Brad Smith, Microsoft', '• Mary T. Barra, General Motors', 'The big questions: Will Mr. Trump bend to pressure from the business community? If not, what might those C.E.O.s do next? Two prominent advisory councils already disbanded after the president’s controversial remarks on the violence in Charlottesville, Va.', 'Many federal agencies have begun relaxing regulations in the Trump era. But the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau is not one of them.', 'The agency, set up under Barack Obama, has continued to crack down on debt collectors, while pushing out a new rule on arbitration and pursuing enforcement actions against payday lenders.', 'The current White House may not be a fan of the regulator. But The New York Times reports that while the Trump administration weighed openly attacking the C.F.P.B., polling data from politically important states dissuaded it from such a move.', '“It’s an agency about protecting the little guy, and that is tough to oppose,” said Dean Clancy, a policy analyst tracking the bureau.', 'But opponents haven’t given up on defanging it. The C.F.P.B. has gotten the cold shoulder from important regulatory allies like the Justice Department and the Treasury Department. And the White House could pick a business-friendly replacement for the regulator’s director, Richard Cordray, who might resign to enter the Democratic primary for governor of Ohio.', 'More From Washington:', '• Mr. Trump could look to the District of Columbia for inspiration on tax reform, according to The Times’s Jim Stewart.', '• Harriet Tubman may not replace Andrew Jackson on the $20 bill after all. The Treasury secretary, Steven Mnuchin, declined to endorse the plan to redesign the bill and include a rendering of the black abolitionist.', 'The scale of sham accounts at Wells Fargo is higher than initially reported — 1.4 million higher.', 'In the year since the scandal became public, Wells Fargo’s investigation into the matter has now put the number of unauthorized accounts at 3.5 million, 70 percent higher than initial estimates. That has prompted concerns about how slow the bank has been in coming clean.', 'The infractions are mounting:', '• Unrequested auto insurance that affected 800,000 people', '• Unauthorized changes to mortgage repayment terms in bankruptcy', '• Improper withholding of refunds to car loan customers', '• Some 528,000 cases where customers were signed up to online bill payment which once carried fees', 'The unearthing of new infractions reflect poorly on Timothy J. Sloan, Wells Fargo’s chief executive, Breakingviews asserts.', 'Related reading: Consumer groups and Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, have called for more congressional hearings. But it is unclear whether Republicans will convene them.', 'Gretchen Morgenson points out that Wells Fargo’s lobbyists have been hard at work. The firm spent $6.5 million on lobbying efforts in the 18 months ended June 30, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. And the bank’s independent directors separately spent $450,000 on lobbying from Oct. 1 to June 30.', 'While Jared Kushner has plenty of tough problems assigned to him at the White House, his family’s real estate business is weighed down by its own millstone: 666 Fifth Avenue, the office building in Midtown Manhattan that the Kushner Companies bought in 2006 for $1.8 billion.', 'Bloomberg has a deep dive into how Mr. Kushner and his company came to buy 666 Fifth Avenue. More interesting is where Kushner Companies has looked for financing partners to help shore up the debt-laden building:', 'From Asia:', '• Anbang Insurance Group of China', '• The Korea Investment Corporation, South Korea’s sovereign wealth fund', 'From the Middle East:', '• Harel Insurance of Israel', '• Bank Leumi of Israel', '• Bank Hapoalim of Israel', '• The Steinmetz family, an Israeli family whose fortune lies in diamonds', '• A Qatari sheikh, Hamad bin Jassim al-Thani, who agreed to invest $500 million if other investors came on board, but none did', '• Fawaz Alhokair, a billionaire from Saudi Arabia', 'From Europe:', '• Bernard Arnault of LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton', 'The Kushner Companies told Bloomberg that 666 Fifth Avenue is now only “one small piece” of its business portfolio. But the article notes that many of the company’s current holdings are also mortgaged, or shared with partners.', 'Hellman & Friedman is leading the race to buy the Scandinavian payments processor Nets in a deal expected to value it at more than $5 billion, The Financial Times reports.', 'The transaction would be the largest European leveraged buyout in four years. It also comes after a flurry of deal making in the payments processing industry as companies look to grab a part of digital spending infrastructure:', '• Vantiv agreed to buy Worldpay in August, after striking deals to buy Moneris Solutions Corporation and Paymetric over the last year.', '• Blackstone and CVC Capital Partners teamed up to bid for Paysafe this year, which had snapped up Merchants Choice Payments Solutions.', '• Visa agreed in 2015 to buy its European unit from a group of banks and payment providers for about $24 billion.', '• Nets was bought three years ago by a consortium that included Bain Capital and Advent International. The buyout firms took the payments processor public last year.', '— Sue Shaw, a school worker in the British town of Staines, who expressed surprise to The Financial Times at how long and complex Britain’s negotiations to leave the European Union have been.', 'Judge Shelley C. Chapman of the Federal Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan has  issued an opinion that provides an important reminder for employees throughout the United States who participate in deferred-compensation plans.', 'The opinion is from the long-running Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, but it applies to employees of all sorts of companies.', 'In short, the tax benefits you get from a deferred-compensation plan are not “free,” and by deferring compensation, you are taking on the credit risk of your employer.', 'In 1985, Shearson Lehman Brothers Inc. — which later became Lehman Brothers Inc., Lehman’s regulated broker-dealer — established the deferred-compensation plan. In the plan, each employee agreed that:', 'The wording not only gives us some insight to gender issues on Wall Street in the 1980s, but also drives home the point that the employer’s obligation to pay the deferred compensation is an unsecured obligation. In this case, a deeply subordinated one. These employees were no better than subordinated bondholders of Lehman Brothers.', 'The employees had several novel arguments for why they should, at least, get out from under the subordination provision in the agreement, but the court rejected them all. The court also rejected the argument that Lehman’s alleged breach of the deferred-compensation agreement would remove the employees’ obligation to subordinate their claims. The court explained that unlike an ordinary contract dispute, the present case involved the simple question how to treat the employees’ claim in bankruptcy.', 'In this case, the employees — in agreeing to the subordination provision — had agreed to be paid after all other general unsecured creditors had been paid in full.', 'Judge Chapman acknowledged that seemed a bit unfair — in her words “expected compensation for years of dedicated service disappeared in an instant in September 2008.” Nevertheless, this was the basic trade-off that employees had made decades ago: better tax treatment, in exchange for more risk.', 'The key question is whether the employees understood the nuances of bankruptcy law that were embedded in this trade-off.']