['Planning a vacation? Chances are you’ll think about it differently than you do that business trip you’re also arranging.', 'For the vacation, you may scroll through hotel reviews before deciding where to stay, not just to compare prices but also to consider the amenities offered.', 'For the business trip, on the other hand, you may be inclined to book a hotel that offers rewards for frequent guests instead of the one with the lowest nightly rate. It is company money you’re spending, after all.', 'Leisure travelers are naturally more selective and cost conscious than business travelers. But a new breed of start-ups that caters to corporate travelers and focuses on user behavior may be making those distinctions obsolete.', 'The premise behind these companies, including Rocketrip, TripActions and Upside, is that if business travelers were rewarded for making choices that save their companies money, they would act accordingly.', 'Upside officially started in January, and more than 10,000 companies in the United States are already using it to book employee travel, according to its founder, Jay Walker. TripActions, which began offering its services in 2015, does not disclose its user figures but has attracted companies like SurveyMonkey and eHarmony, said its founder and chief executive, Ariel Cohen. Rocketrip, which has been around since 2013, is the preferred booking tool of General Electric, Twitter and 50 to 100 other Fortune 100 and midsize businesses, Dan Ruch, its founder and chief executive, said.', 'Mr. Ruch, of Manhattan, got into the business of offering incentives to business travelers after learning about how Google employees travel.', '“I came up with the concept in 2012, but it wasn’t really my idea,” he said. “We stumbled onto Google’s approach,” which has been in place at least a decade. The Google method includes drawing up a budget for airfare and hotels before every trip. If employees come in under budget, they earn credits that can be redeemed for travel upgrades in the future. The approach is different from “gamified” booking tools that encourage certain behavior, like using a preferred carrier, but generally do not let employees share in the savings.', 'Rocketrip, like Google, allows travelers to keep half of what they save. Instead of travel upgrades, it offers gift cards to Amazon, Best Buy and other retailers through a so-called rewards store.', 'Mr. Ruch calls the system “incentivized behavioral change,” and he said it was either the most radical concept in corporate travel, or the most obvious.', '“There’s such an enormous amount of inefficiency in business travel,” he said. “If your company’s policy allows business class on flights over six hours, it is not expected behavior to fly coach. If your policy allows five-star hotels, it is not expected behavior to stay at a three-star hotel or to stay with a friend.”', 'People are naturally drawn to comfort, Mr. Ruch said, meaning that unless they know they will be rewarded for cutting corners, they will indulge their inclination to make business travel as cushy, and as expensive, as possible.', 'Mark Mintman, the director of finance at AAF International, an air filter company in Louisville, Ky., said he had seen Mr. Ruch’s theory in action. Before AAF started using Rocketrip last fall, the company’s roughly 100 traveling employees submitted trip budgets to management before booking.', '“There was really no incentive to save,” he said. Once Rocketrip and its “Budget to Beat” formulas were adopted, Mr. Mintman said, AAF employees started to save the company 15 to 20 percent, or roughly $133, per trip. Travelers see how much they can earn for each cost-saving option — staying with a friend instead of staying at a hotel, for example — through Rocketrip’s online booking tool.', '“I’ve seen some extreme examples of people getting into it,” Mr. Mintman said. Colleagues who once stayed at a Hilton are now staying at the less expensive Microtel. And, he added, “I’ve had guys stay in hotels 45 minutes away from where they need to be, just to generate savings. Instead of being loyal to a Starwood or a Marriott account, now they’re loyal to saving the company money.”', 'Rocketrip, like other start-ups applying a carrot-and-stick approach to travel, also gives reports to company managers about how much was saved and which action — settling, say, for a cheaper hotel or a coach seat — caused the savings on each trip, Mr. Ruch said. If an employee goes over the “budget to beat” figure, management sees that, too.', 'Mr. Mintman said that working with Rocketrip had helped AAF determine what was reasonable for a travel budget. “Now, we can go back to someone’s proposed spending on a trip and see how well it lines up with what Rocketrip has come up with,” he said.', 'TripActions, which gives users who save their companies money “TripBucks” redeemable for gift cards, upgrades and vacations, claims it can cut travel costs as much as 30 percent per trip. (Mr. Ruch said the average Rocketrip user saves the company 24 percent.)', 'The TripActions app lets users specify airplane seat preferences, loyalty club memberships and other personal details before booking. It also allows for last-minute itinerary changes and features a chat line, should complications arise.', 'David Rowley, vice president for customer experience at Jive Communications, a tech company in Utah, likes TripActions’ emphasis on customer service.', '“I’m leaving for a trip on Monday, so I know I’ll get a call from them on Sunday afternoon letting me know my flights are still on schedule,” he said. He also likes the TripBucks, which accrue the more you travel and the more you save. Mr. Rowley said he had earned $1,700 in rewards and had saved Jive $7,500 since the company started using TripActions at the end of last year. He cashes in his TripBucks for Amazon gift cards.', '“My daughter is getting married, so I’m using TripBucks to buy things for her wedding,” he said. “Honestly, I’ve learned from using TripActions that travel really is a behavioral thing. I used to wait until the last minute if I needed to go somewhere. Like, I’d book my tickets late so I could get into a certain hotel. But now I book months in advance because I’m looking to save some money and earn some rewards.”', 'Upside, a third venture developed with the goal of getting business travelers to think like consumers, bypasses travel managers and works directly with employees.', '“We target any company that doesn’t have a travel department,” said Mr. Walker, who was also the founder of Priceline. “Essentially, if your company asks you to buy your own travel, we’re there for you.”', 'Savings are generated by bundling flights and hotels. Upside buys the flight and hotel packages at wholesale prices, then sells them to customers at what Mr. Walker called a “lower retail.” Rates, he said, were usually 5 to 10 percent off rates at sites like Expedia, and users earn gift cards every time they book a trip. The average card earned for a domestic trip is $100 to $200. (Participating retailers include Amazon and Home Depot.) Values run higher, usually around $200, for international travelers. Companies typically save 5 to 15 percent when employees book through Upside, Mr. Walker said.', 'Kurt Hosna, global communications director at a Boston human resources management company, said he had used Upside since it started. So far, he has redeemed roughly $1,000 in rewards, much of it for gear for his cycling hobby.', 'Before he and his colleagues started using Upside, Mr. Hosna said, they tried to be good sports about not overspending on travel. His company’s pat-on-the-back approach to acknowledging their conscientiousness was nice, he said. But Upside’s gift cards have been nicer. “Giving people real rewards just makes sense,” he said.', 'Good Tuesday. Here’s what we’re watching:', '• Memo to Qualcomm: National champions have to deliver.', '• How companies are planning on spending their tax savings.', '• Behind President Trump’s extraordinary block of Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm.', '• Meet Larry Page’s flying taxi start-up.', '• And what lies ahead for Goldman Sachs’s presumptive heir.', 'Get this in your inbox each morning. Sign up here.', "President Trump has stepped in to protect Qualcomm from Broadcom, a foreign company that wanted to buy the San Diego-based chip maker. Rather than let market forces decide what should happen in the chip industry, the administration intervened because it had concerns about national security. One of the government's main worries, laid out in a March 5 letter, was that Broadcom would reduce Qualcomm’s spending on research and development, causing Qualcomm to lose ground in the race to develop important new technologies like 5G, which is designed to make wireless networks faster and more reliable. Chinese companies may gain an advantage in 5G, for instance.", 'Qualcomm does spend a lot on research and development. In its last fiscal year, the company’s $5.5 billion of research and development outlays were equivalent to 25 percent of its revenue. That was up from 21 percent on average in the preceding five years. According to Qualcomm executives, spending on 5G has driven the increase.', 'The big question is what Qualcomm does now. Will the company become less efficient under the government’s protection? Will it be tempted to spend less on research and development? If that spending falls markedly as a percentage of revenue, United States taxpayers may have reason to feel taken advantage of.', '— Peter Eavis', 'The Trump administration seems to have taken a more activist role in mergers and acquisitions than past administrations.', 'On Monday, President Trump blocked Broadcom’s hostile bid for Qualcomm. The move came just over three months after President Trump’s Justice Department drew plenty of attention for suing to block AT&T’s acquisition of Time Warner.', 'That’s roughly $200 billion worth of transactions.', 'But the administration’s oppositions to M.&A. activity goes further, especially when it comes Chinese acquirers.', 'Here’s a look at some of the other deals that ran into problems securing approval from the United States government:', '• In March, Changnong, a unit of Beijing Dabeinong Technology, scrapped plans to buy Waldo Farms after it failed to obtain United States government approval.', '• In September, the Trump administration blocks China’s Canyon Bridge Capital Partners’ $1.3 billion bid for Lattice Semiconductor over national security concerns.', '• In November, Cowen Group called off its deal for CEFC China Energy, a Chinese conglomerate with big investments in oil in Central Africa, to take a 20 percent stake in the New York boutique investment bank, blaming delays and “uncertainty” in securing Cfius approval.', '• In January, MoneyGram and Ant Financial, the Chinese electronic payments company, canceled their $1.2 billion deal after failing to win approval from a Washington panel that reviews foreign purchases of American companies.', 'This approach to deals is a reversal from the stance of past administrations on deal making. Writes Matt Levine of Bloomberg Views:', 'A decade ago, Bear Stearns was facing a grave liquidity crisis. Its stock had plummeted more than 20 percent in just days. Investors, as well as clients and broker-dealers, had pulled back from the firm, fearing that their continued exposure to plunging real estate assets threatened their solvency.', 'Amid the chaos, the co-head of Goldman’s investment bank, David Solomon, reached out to an executive at Bear Stearns:', "The call left Sam Molinaro, Bear’s C.F.O., feeling uneasy. “When Goldman calls and offers their assistance, it's usually a moneymaking opportunity for them,” Mr. Molinaro said.", 'Of course, within days, JPMorgan, with the backing of the Federal Reserve, had stepped in and agreed to acquire Bear for $2 a share.', 'Mr. Solomon, meanwhile, was anointed the heir apparent at Goldman yesterday.', 'When President Trump signed the sweeping tax overhaul into law late last year, he said, “Corporations are literally going wild over this.” We’re not ones to judge whether that’s an overstatement, but a new study has found that, at the least, many plan on going shopping.', 'Here’s what a survey of 500 American companies with sales of at least $500 million by EY found:', '• 42 percent of respondents intend to use their tax savings on acquisitions', '• 73 percent of executives said that they will accelerate their M.&A. planning for the year in any case', '• 69 percent of respondents say that they’re likely to bring back more cash from overseas under the new tax code', 'The responses to survey suggest that many of the predictions for how companies would use the proceeds from the tax overhaul may prove correct. Though many firms garnered headlines for doling out bonuses to employees or raising hourly wages, analysts and economists largely predicted that corporate America would turn to deal-making, dividends or share buybacks as ways to spend their money.', '“At the end of the day, tax is not a driver of M.&A., but it certainly is a key element,” Bill Casey, EY’s Americas vice chair of transaction advisory services, told me. He added that the removal of uncertainty about taxes, as well as the potential benefits from the overhaul, appears to have lifted companies’ deal-making spirits.', 'Not that M.&A. has been bad so far this year. Announced transactions in the United States for the year to date are up 55 percent from the same time last year, according to Thomson Reuters. And Mr. Casey pointed out that companies already have access to plenty of cheap financing to pursue acquisitions.', 'But for mid-market companies especially, extra money in the pocket can help provide an extra shot of confidence.', '“There’s more capital being fueled by tax reform, and that will ultimately lead to a better deal market,” Mr. Casey said.', 'Other findings from the survey', '• 75 percent of respondents said that they are likely to grow their United States manufacturing base in some way', '• 89 percent said that they planned to “enhance compensation” because of forthcoming tax benefits', '• 38 percent of mid-cap companies plan to create new jobs, compared to only 19 percent of large-caps', '• 66 percent are likely to pass some tax savings onto customers', '— Michael de la Merced', 'Few deal makers that Michael has spoken to since last night can recall such a dramatic scenario: The president intervening in a hostile takeover, citing national security reasons.', 'President Trump essentially salted the earth for Broadcom’s bid for Qualcomm. Broadcom was ordered to “immediately and permanently abandon the proposed takeover,” and its nominees for Qualcomm’s board, who had stood a good chance of winning most of the seats, were immediately disqualified.', 'What John Kabealo, a specialist in foreign investment law, told Cecilia Kang and Alan Rappeport of the NYT:', 'Scott Kennedy of the Center for Strategic & International Studies told Bloomberg, “This decision hangs a huge ‘not-for-sale’ sign on just about every American semiconductor firm.”', 'Big question 1: Much has been made of this White House’s protectionism. But Cfius, the government panel that reviews deals for national security concerns, cited Broadcom’s “relationships with third-party foreign entities.” What does that mean?', 'Big question 2: Did Broadcom — which sped up its efforts to move its legal headquarters to the U.S. in apparent defiance of Cfius’s orders — misplay this situation?', 'Big question 3: Does any non-U.S. bidder for an American company now need to worry about Cfius?', 'Critics’ corner:  Brook Sutherland of Gadfly warns, “This should be a warning for future deal makers and would-be friends of Trump.” Considering Qualcomm’s prospects now, Lex says the company “has disappointed before — even without the president’s help.”', 'Market reaction', 'Shares of Qualcomm are down 4.5 percent, while Broadcom’s stock rose 1.7 percent. Rival chip maker Intel, which has been considering a number alternatives in response Broadcom’s pursuit of Qualcomm, gained 2.7 percent.', 'Andrew took the wraps off the Alphabet C.E.O.’s well-hidden side project, which aims to be the Uber of self-flying aircraft before Uber can even get there.', 'More from Andrew’s column:', 'New Zealand has long been seen as safety-conscious, so its regulations for the vehicles could be a model in the U.S. and elsewhere.', 'Now that the Wall Street titan has officially anointed an up-and-coming disc jockey — a.k.a. David Solomon, longtime investment banker — Lloyd Blankfein’s likely successor, it’s worth considering his priorities:', 'From Dakin Campbell of Bloomberg:', 'And in an interview with the Virgin Group founder Richard Branson last month, Mr. Solomon suggested that Goldman — which has added consumer lending to its stable of services — “could move in your direction a little bit.”', 'The succession race was Wall Street’s most closely watched, with Mr. Solomon, the outsider investment banker, squaring off against a Goldman lifer and veteran trader, his fellow co-president Harvey Schwartz.', 'From Kate Kelly of the NYT:', 'Peter Eavis’s take: Morgan Stanley has arguably done more than Goldman to diversify away from trading into more stable businesses like wealth management.', 'A stumble for Goldman’s deal business: It’s fifth in Thomson Reuters’s global league tables, behind Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Lazard.', 'As the current front-runner to replace Gary Cohn, the CNBC commentator would become the White House’s top salesman for its economic policies — and one of the top internal supporters of free trade, when protectionism is ascendant.', 'Why Mr. Kudlow, whose last formal Washington job was in the Reagan administration? From Maggie Haberman and Jim Tankersley of the NYT:', 'Just in time: Mr. Kudlow and Stephen Moore have an op-ed in today’s WSJ on the economy. From the piece: “Mr. Trump’s tax-cutting and deregulatory policies are already pushing out the supply curve, creating real growth that isn’t inflationary.”', 'More context: The apparent discarding of the previous front-runner, Chris Liddell, is another blow to Jared Kushner, for whom he worked.', 'The political flyaround', '• While some Senate Republicans have introduced bills to block President Trump’s proposed tariffs, G.O.P. leaders are unlikely to take them up. European carmakers said the tariffs might lead them reduce investment, and therefore jobs, in the U.S.', '• Mr. Trump abandoned his promise of tougher gun rules opposed by the National Rifle Association, including raising the age limit to buy assault-style rifles. And the Justice Department is moving to punish those who lie to obtain guns.', '• Republicans on the House Intelligence Committee found that Russia did not try to sway the 2016 election in Mr. Trump’s favor, contradicting the intelligence community. (NYT)', '• The Senate Banking Committee is on track to pass legislation that will protect Equifax and its peers from consumer lawsuits, while allowing it to expand in the mortgage business. (Politico)', '• Stormy Daniels, who says she had an affair with Mr. Trump, has offered to return $130,000 to his personal lawyer to break a nondisclosure agreement. (NYT)', '• Could Saudi Arabia abandon plans to list Aramco on an international stock exchange? A tweak to MSCI’s indexes might make that happen. (Reuters)', '• Geely’s acquisition of almost a tenth of Daimler has stoked German fears about China’s rise as an industrial power. (FT)', '• HNA Group is in talks to sell some Hilton-related investments, unnamed sources said. (WSJ)', '• IHS Towers, Africa’s largest telecommunication-towers company, is planning an I.P.O. in New York, and MTN Group, which owns about 29 percent of it, could sell a stake worth about $2.3 billion. (Bloomberg)', 'Apple said yesterday that it was buying Texture, the so-called “Netflix of magazines.” It has already acquired the likes of Shazam, the music-recognition app, as it seeks services that could entice and keep customers within its ecosystem.', 'More from Tripp Mickle and Lukas Alpert of the WSJ:', 'Also of note: Apple’s market value as of yesterday’s close was $922 billion, after touching a high of $925 billion.', 'The virtual currency corner: Bitcoin is at $9,189.66 this morning. Endowments and foundations are steering clear of virtual currencies, but that doesn’t mean they’re not interested. And the Japanese trading platform Coincheck said it had compensated customers hit when it was hacked and had resumed exchange services.', 'The tech flyaround', '• Not everyone in tech agrees about immigration. (Axios)', '• Marketers, increasingly worried about the reliability of audience numbers, are flocking to businesses that identify fake accounts on platforms like Instagram. (NYT)', '• A federal judge rejected a bid to dismiss much of a lawsuit against Yahoo over its security breaches, which claims that all 3 billion users had information compromised. (Reuters)', '• Lyft said that its sales surpassed $1 billion last year and are still growing quickly. (Axios)', 'Thanks to eagle-eyed reader Ashay Gupta for spotting this late-1980s interaction between the future Fed chairman and the Berkshire Hathaway chief during the Salomon Brothers saga.', '• Shane Smith is preparing to cede his position as C.E.O. of Vice Media to Nancy Dubuc, who is stepping down from A&E Networks, unnamed sources said. (NYT)', '• Debra Reed will step down as president and C.E.O. at Sempra Energy, which just finished acquiring Oncor. (L.A. Times)', '• China will overhaul supervision of its debt-ridden financial sector, environmental regulators and other essential government agencies, consolidating the Communist Party’s power. (NYT)', '• The Russo brothers, who directed several Marvel movies, are running a $250 million production company backed by China’s largest private film company, Huayi Brothers Media. (WSJ)', '• Wage data is volatile and may be declining in quality. (NYT)', '• The world’s largest asset managers often declined to support shareholder resolutions pushing big energy companies toward greater action on climate change, according to a study of 2017 data. (Axios)', '• Arnold Schwarzenegger wants to sue oil companies for “knowingly killing people all over the world.” (Politico)', '• Wynn Resorts dropped litigation against its former largest shareholder, the Japanese pachinko mogul Kazuo Okada, a step toward resolving a six-year legal battle. (WSJ)', '• G.E. did not pay its top executives a cash bonus last year, for the first time in its history. (WSJ)', '.', 'We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.', 'Donald J. Trump’s boardroom in “The Apprentice” was like something out of a movie. Specifically, “Network.”', 'In the Netflix documentary “The Confidence Man,” two “Apprentice” producers say they found the actual Trump Organization offices too dated and dowdy for TV. So they built a set in Trump Tower, modeled on the darkened lair where the mogul, Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty), dresses down the rebellious newsman Howard Beale (Peter Finch), howling, “The world is a business!”', 'That’s what reality TV does: It set-designs locations (a “Survivor” island, a “Bachelor” love nest) to look more convincing, more in line with our mental cartoons than the real thing.', '“The Confidence Man,” a swift, brutal overview of Mr. Trump’s business career, argues that he had been doing the same thing with his image for decades: He wasn’t a business titan so much as he played one on TV.', 'The film, directed by Fisher Stevens (“Bright Lights”), is the last episode of a six-part anthology, “Dirty Money,” from the filmmaker Alex Gibney (“Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room”), arriving Friday. The installments range from an infuriating look at payday lending to an offbeat story about Canadian maple syrup cartels.', 'The common thread is the abuse of trust. And “The Confidence Man” argues that the problem goes all the way to the top.', 'Mr. Stevens’s narrative starts with Trump Tower, the gleaming metonym Mr. Trump hung his name on in brass letters. The splashy project landed him on talk shows and magazine covers as the photogenic shorthand for Reagan-age materialism.', 'That served his other big 1980s construction effort — his media image, for which he poured the foundation in the New York tabloids. The gossip columnist A. J. Benza recalls Mr. Trump as a regular source, offering juicy tips with only one condition: that he be referred to in print as a billionaire.', 'TV reports picked up on the description and embellished it, and Mr. Trump smiled and let them.', '“The Confidence Man” interviews old friends, like the music mogul Russell Simmons, and associates like Barbara Res, the executive in charge of the Trump Tower construction, who remember his mythmaking bemusedly. Compared with real estate families like the Zeckendorfs, Ms. Res says, “Who was Trump? He was nobody.”', 'Maybe Mr. Trump wasn’t the biggest developer. But he was the most visible, and he banked on people taking one for the other. (A later ad for Trump University declared, “Donald Trump is, without question, the world’s most famous businessman” — trusting the audience to read that as “most successful.”)', 'Banks threw money at his celebrity, and he spent it on high-visibility purchases: an airline, the Plaza Hotel, a football team, casinos.', 'When it all went bad by the early ’90s, fame was his guarantor. His creditors, who needed the Trump brand to survive in order to get paid back, put him on an allowance to keep up a glitzy front.', 'Mr. Trump, the film argues, has thrived by finding partners — in finance, reality TV, politics — who were as invested as he was in propping up his image.', 'Mr. Trump’s self-inflation has been covered before. In the 2005 book “TrumpNation” the former New York Times reporter Tim O’Brien, who figures heavily in this documentary, concluded that Mr. Trump was worth mere hundreds of millions, not billions. (Mr. Trump sued him for libel, unsuccessfully.) But “The Confidence Man” is useful for how it separates out the business thread from the recent tangle of “How we got Trump” analyses.', 'When Mr. Trump’s business became licensing his name to others, he essentially turned into a mascot. He showed up on sitcoms and did fast-food ads with his ex-wife Ivana and Grimace from McDonald’s. He was his own Col. Sanders, personifying the herbs and spices — glitter, ambition — that “TRUMP” in big brass letters stood for.', 'That made him a perfect host for “The Apprentice,” whose premise was that Mr. Trump was a legendary businessman and desirable boss.', 'TV fame opened up other opportunities, and the last half of “The Confidence Man” detours into dark intimations about Mr. Trump’s partnerships with businessmen from former Soviet republics and his alleged self-enrichment as president. It also re-examines the fraud case, later settled, against Trump University that his opponents tried to make stick to him in the 2016 campaign.', 'But the film’s larger case is against the reasoning that helped elect him: He was the most famous businessman, therefore he was the best businessman, therefore — following the logic of Mitt Romney and H. Ross Perot before him — he would be the best president. “He’s managed businesses,” one voter quoted in the film says, “and I think he can manage this country.”', 'You could, of course, argue that branding and the ability to leverage illusions are valuable skills themselves. You could agree with Arthur Jensen that the world is a business. But the forceful conclusion of “The Confidence Man” is that Mr. Trump’s world is, and has always been, a stage.', 'For a recent commercial, FedEx tried something unusual. It was not set in a bustling office. It did not feature one of its distinctive delivery trucks, or even a single package.', 'Instead, there was a smiling Drew Brees, quarterback of the New Orleans Saints, ringing a doorbell and waving an app in the face of an unsuspecting homeowner. The message was simple.', '“It’s about letting the customer know they can have control over the destiny of their package,” Raj Subramaniam, FedEx’s chief marketing and communications officer, said.', 'Increasingly, its customers are consumers themselves. And as the holiday shopping season approached, with online retail surging, the three giants of package delivery services — FedEx, United Parcel Service and the United States Postal Service — had to strategize on new ways to address people at home.', 'That represents somewhat of a departure for the major parcel services, specifically FedEx and U.P.S., which have traditionally focused on their relationships with retailers and that business-to-business connection. The Postal Service has been the nation’s mail carrier since 1792, yet only more recently have packages become an area of emphasis.', 'But with e-commerce sales expected to eclipse $100 billion this year for the first time, according to research by Adobe, somebody has to deliver all those goods to all those doorsteps. Today, there is more competition over the “last mile” — getting packages into the hands of consumers — than perhaps ever before. Companies like Uber, Postmates and LaserShip are trying their hand at on-demand and same-day deliveries, while Amazon may soon introduce its own delivery service, Seller Flex.', 'This has prompted some couriers to rethink what they are offering and how their messages are reaching different customers.', 'James Cochrane, senior vice president and chief customer and marketing officer for the Postal Service, said that, for most the year, the company tries to showcase e-commerce brands and the packages they deliver in its advertising. But, now, during the peak shopping season, it is emphasizing households and neighborhood relationships.', '“This time of the year, we get on the porch,” Mr. Cochrane said. “The rest of the year we’re in the warehouse.”', 'U.P.S. said it expected to deliver 750 million packages between Thanksgiving and New Year’s, a 5 percent increase over last year. It expects about 65 percent of those packages to be delivered directly to homes, a spokesman said, about the same as last year.', 'That has prompted a variety of initiatives aimed at the “end customer,” said Louis DeJianne, U.P.S.’s vice president of retail marketing. Though Mr. DeJianne said ad spending remains steady throughout the year, the company has tried to highlight some of its e-commerce-related offerings through an increase in digital ads. Among them are U.P.S. Access Point, which allows customers to pick up packages from a locker at a designated location; Saturday deliveries; and a program that makes it easier for customers to handle returns.', '“We looked at how consumers engage with the retailer from searching, buying, checkout, delivery, on through to return,” Mr. DeJianne said. “When we analyze the needs of retail, we recognize that reverse logistics is also important to the consumer.”', 'A few years ago, the Postal Service sought to end its Saturday delivery practices for budget reasons. Now, the Postal Service is delivering packages even on Sundays in major cities during the holiday rush. An estimated 6 million parcels a day will be delivered this December.', '“Everyone is being held to a new norm,” Mr. Cochrane said. “Having seven-day delivery gives us an advantage in the marketplace. We don’t talk in business days. We’re delivering every day.”', 'The National Retail Federation said that more people planned to shop online this year (59 percent) than ever before, and already there have been delivery hiccups. Last week, U.P.S. said some package deliveries had been delayed as it struggled to handle a surge of online orders on Cyber Monday.', 'The rate of growth for e-commerce has not been surprising, Mr. Subramaniam said. But, increasingly, he said FedEx — which counts e-commerce as 20 percent of its overall portfolio — is being held to a higher standard for three elements of its service: reliability, convenience and control.', 'That’s shaped the corporate messaging, which has focused on informing residential customers about ways to customize delivery options (such as the ad featuring Mr. Brees) and emphasizing the scope of FedEx’s logistical network, which one recent ad described as working like “magic.”', '“That infrastructure is not something that can be achieved overnight,” Mr. Subramaniam said.', 'Patrick Fitzgerald, FedEx’s senior vice president of integrated marketing and communications, said same-day delivery accounted for only a small percentage of the overall shipping landscape.', 'Satish Jindel, the founder of the SJ Consulting Group, which advises transportation and logistics firms, said he did not expect Amazon to pose a major threat to the existing couriers. But, he said, the explosion of delivery demand has been a catalyst for change.', '“If they don’t do it, there are a lot of small companies coming into business who are glad to do it on Sundays and Saturdays,” he said. “It will create a whole new dynamic in the parcel industry.”', 'Mr. DeJianne said Amazon remains an open and communicative customer of U.P.S.', '“As we’re moving forward with our strategies, we’re often at the table with them discussing their strategies as well,” he said. “We have a good relationship.”', 'Still, even without Amazon in the mix, delivery services are dealing with changing customer demands.', '“It used to be that shipping was more about business days,” Mr. Cochrane, of the Postal Service, said. “Or you’d shop and shipping would be five to seven days. But expectations have changed.”', 'Last Wednesday, even as top executives were abandoning President Trump’s business advisory councils after his remarks on white supremacist violence in Charlottesville, Va., other industry leaders were busy making their interests known to a business-friendly White House.', 'Jerry Howard, chief executive of the National Association of Home Builders, a trade group, traveled to the Eisenhower Executive Office Building to meet with Mark Calabria, the chief economist to Vice President Mike Pence. The men talked tax reform, and Mr. Howard pressed for incentives including the mortgage interest deduction.', 'It was the kind of back and forth that goes on between business interests and the administration every day. And that relative normalcy — even on a day when a number of prominent C.E.O.s publicly abandoned Mr. Trump — served as a reminder that no matter the president’s missteps, his top legislative priorities, particularly tax reform, still draw strong support from business leaders.', 'Now, with some signs that the worst fallout from Mr. Trump’s response to Charlottesville has passed — and with the departure of Stephen K. Bannon, Mr. Trump’s volatile strategist — some in the business community are voicing hope that the administration can tackle tax reform.', '“Everyone is similarly motivated to reach some version of success, to get a tax bill to the president’s desk that he can sign,” said Rohit Kumar, a tax specialist at PricewaterhouseCoopers. “On tax, there’s a lot of business community support, there’s a lot of similar incentives.”', 'Efforts to overhaul the tax code are expected to begin in earnest this fall. Already, big business groups are lining up to support the White House’s efforts.', 'The Business Roundtable, which represents chief executives of the largest companies, has started an advertising campaign calling for a tax overhaul that is supported by the White House, the Treasury Department and Republican congressional leadership.', 'Such coordination between industry groups and the White House stands in contrast to last week’s unraveling of the business advisory groups, but confirms what many in the corporate world say: Behind the scenes, there is still active dialogue between business groups and the administration.', '“We have had broad access to the administration and cabinet members,” said Mr. Howard, who has been in associations and lobbying groups for 30 years. “Our access, and their receptivity to our requests for meetings, has been better than I’ve ever seen.”', 'Four people in particular have emerged as go-to contacts for executives and lobbyists seeking to sway the debate: Gary D. Cohn, director of the National Economic Council; Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin; Deputy National Security Adviser Dina Powell; and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross.', 'All four are familiar faces to business leaders. Mr. Cohn, Mr. Mnuchin and Ms. Powell are alumni of Goldman Sachs, the powerful investment bank, and Mr. Ross ran a private equity firm.', 'Expectations of a more stable partnership with business appeared to hearten investors. The major stock market indexes rose sharply on Tuesday, in part buoyed by investor hopes that with the departure of Mr. Bannon, more pragmatic voices within the administration will gain strength, possibly resulting in a tax overhaul bill. The benchmark Standard & Poor’s 500-stock index closed up nearly 1 percent, its biggest gain in a week.', '“I think investors are picking up on this,” said Jim Paulsen, a stock market strategist for the Leuthold Group, an investment firm based in Minneapolis. “We now have people around the president who are more moderate and pro-business, like Gary Cohn.”', 'Mr. Paulsen also suggested that Mr. Trump’s measured speech on Monday about sending more troops to Afghanistan could be seen by those still willing to bet on the Trump economy that there is now “change within the administration.”', 'Even as corporate leaders criticized the president, industry representatives and lobbyists have continued to press various agencies in Mr. Trump’s administration. At the Environmental Protection Agency, industry groups have attained significant influence as Scott Pruitt, the E.P.A.’s administrator, has rolled back regulations.', 'Still, repairing relations with the White House itself will take time. While the Business Roundtable is supporting efforts for tax reform, its chairman, Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, has joined the chorus of leaders criticizing Mr. Trump last week.', '“I strongly disagree with President Trump’s reaction to the events that took place in Charlottesville over the past several days,” Mr. Dimon wrote on Twitter.', 'The schism between Mr. Trump and top chief executives is real, and could have meaningful implications.', 'Former White House officials and executives said that while it is useful for executives to interact with cabinet-level officials and members of the vice president’s staff, such relationships are no substitute to a working relationship with the Oval Office.', '“You will see a lot of connecting points at the cabinet level, and that’s natural and good,” said Mack McLarty, President Bill Clinton’s first chief of staff. “But at the end of the day, the president is going to make the final decision on policies and how legislation is approached. So there has got to be some ability for businesses, hopefully large and small, to engage with this administration, as there was such great promise going in.”', 'There are even questions about whether or not the executives who once made up his advisory councils will be willing to speak out in support of causes they shared with the White House, including a tax code overhaul.', '“For this president, losing both councils is terrifically challenging,” said Richard Levick, founder of the Washington public relations firm Levick. “They were more than symbolic. These C.E.O.s were going to be the ambassadors for the administration to talk about tax reform, about health care reform, about infrastructure.”', 'And there are other issues where business interests and the wishes of the White House diverge.', 'Mr. Trump’s nominee to lead the Export-Import Bank, which supports American exports, is facing stiff opposition from business groups.', 'The nominee, Scott Garrett, a former congressman from New Jersey once said Ex-Im, as it is known, “embodies the corruption of the free enterprise system.”', 'That has rattled big companies such as Boeing, General Electric and Caterpillar, which rely on Ex-Im to help finance their overseas sales.', 'Now, as the prospect of hearings and a confirmation vote on Mr. Garrett’s appointment draw closer, big business groups have stepped up their efforts to quash his nomination. The National Association of Manufacturers is leading a campaign to drum up opposition to Mr. Garrett.', 'And the Business Roundtable spoke out against Mr. Garrett on Twitter, writing “BRT cannot support Scott Garrett or any #ExIm nominee who does not demonstrate strong support for the bank and commitment to get it promptly back to work, fully executing its mission.”', 'It is not clear if Mr. Garrett will lead Ex-Im, or if the efforts to derail his nomination will succeed. But even if big companies are able to sway the administration on the Ex-Im leadership, and even if a tax overhaul is enacted, it may be some time before corporate chieftains want to sit alongside Mr. Trump again.', '“Our clients were coming to me eight months ago and saying, ‘What if we are the victims of a nasty Trump tweet?’” Mr. Levick said. “Now they’re saying, ‘What do we do if the president wants a photo op?’ You don’t want to be seen with this president.”', 'Andrew Ross Sorkin was a 24-year-old mergers and acquisitions reporter for The New York Times when, in 2001, he began sending a daily email roundup to his readers. He called it “DealBook.”', 'Now, almost 17 years later, DealBook is an integral part of The Times’s news report — and has expanded its coverage in print, on the web and through an annual conference.', 'In the meantime, Mr. Sorkin, who first wrote for The Times while still in high school, has written a best-selling book (“Too Big to Fail”), won two Gerald Loeb Awards and helped create a television series, “Billions,” for Showtime. He is also a co-anchor of Squawk Box, a financial news program on CNBC.', 'What follows is a lightly edited Q. and A. about the origins — and the future — of DealBook, which relaunched in November.', '_____', 'We’re expanding our mandate to become a smartly curated, one-stop shop for all the day’s key business and policy news and analysis in real time.', 'The business world is now inextricably linked with policy — in Washington, in Brussels, in Beijing — in a way that it has never been before. Corporate C.E.O.s and investors increasingly spend as much time in D.C. as they do on Wall Street. Business has become politics. And politics is business.', 'That’s why we’re relaunching DealBook with a renewed focus on the intersection of these crosscurrents, leveraging the entire reporting staff of The New York Times for our deeply loyal reader base of influential business and policy leaders and an expanding global audience.', 'We’re going to be touching on everything from lobbying to technology to taxes to automation’s impact on jobs to the business community’s approach to climate change.', 'Our goal is to bring readers unique insights and exclusive behind-the-scenes details about the day’s most important headlines. And of course, we will continue to cover the world of deal making and finance.', 'It was 2001. The Times had just asked me to move back from London, where I had been covering mergers in Europe for the paper, to New York to take over the merger beat here.', 'As I went around meeting people on Wall Street, it occurred to me that many of them were spending as much of the day as I did trying to piece together various news reports, to stay up-to-date. I figured there could be value in curating a daily report that put all of the news together from all sorts of news sources, and in prioritizing the news in a way that made sense for this audience.', 'Back then, the idea of linking to a competitor, whether it be The Wall Street Journal or The Financial Times, was considered treasonous. Blogging was in its infancy. And the real insight was to send the report by email every morning, putting it at the top of everyone’s inbox when they woke up.', 'Back then, by the way, we used to get requests to send the newsletter by fax!', 'Over time, as our readership increased from a couple hundred to over 300,000, DealBook moved from being put together by me in my pajamas at home at 5 in the morning, supported by a small team, to a larger and larger team. We started our website in 2006 and began doing much more original reporting and offering analysis throughout the day. In 2010, we grew even bigger.', 'Along the way, we added an annual conference, a daily page in the newspaper, two annual special sections and more.', 'One of the best parts of this project: We’ve been able to hire some amazingly talented people over the years, many of whom now populate all different parts of the paper. Among them: Susanne Craig (who famously got President Trump’s old tax records in the mail); Azam Ahmed, the bureau chief for Mexico, Central America and the Caribbean; Ben Protess, who now covers the Trump administration and its potential conflicts of interests; Kevin Roose, our newest business columnist with The Shift; Alexandra Stevenson, a correspondent in Hong Kong; and Adrienne Carter, who is now the deputy business editor.', 'Michael Schmidt, a star in our Washington bureau, did some writing for us early on in his career — as did Thomas Kaplan, who now covers Congress and was once on loan to us as a summer intern. Michael J. de la Merced, our most prolific DealBook writer and a mainstay of the report, started working with us all the way back in 2006.', 'The Times was pretty early in developing email newsletters. However, many were just automated lists of headlines. It was the addition of truly original writing and reporting that really elevated The Times’s newsletters in recent years.', 'Readers have gravitated to email newsletters — they’re the best way to cut through the overwhelming nature of everything online.', 'For me, I have always been driven by trying to figure out what the reader wants — and what they need.', 'Whenever I finish an interview for a story, I often ask this series of questions: “What do you read? What’s wrong with it? What’s missing? What do you wish you had that you don’t have?”', 'Everything that I’ve ever built has come from trying to fulfill the answers to those questions.', 'On a sales trip last fall to Seoul, South Korea, Josh Udashkin, the founder of the smart luggage company Raden, quickly realized that he’d better leave the matte-finish suitcase samples in his hotel room.', '“The retail displays, the street fashion, shoes, purses, headphones, showed me that shiny surfaces were definitely popular in Seoul,” he said. Instead, he brought only the shiny-surface samples to his meeting at a Korean department store. The visit was successful, and the store plans to stock Mr. Udashkin’s wares this fall.', 'The lesson was simple. Putting in time to understand the local culture is key to success abroad, Mr. Udashkin said. “If you think, ‘My product was so successful in New York or L.A., of course it will sell here,’” he said, “you are setting yourself up to fail.”', 'Business travelers hoping to improve their professional prospects by understanding local culture and business customs can take a path similar to Mr. Udashkin’s and spend time observing the culture firsthand and asking colleagues about their experiences. They now also have a panoply of other choices, including websites, apps and business-focused tour guides.', 'To prepare for his trip to Seoul, Mr. Udashkin said, he learned some common phrases using the Duolingo smartphone app, looked at Korean fashion websites and read up on the local news. He also asked friends from Korea about business practices. They advised him to study up on business card exchange etiquette.', '“The more you can prepare in advance,” said Manny Cowan, the head of global mobility services at the World Bank, “the sooner you can get to your mission and why you are there.”', 'Preparing for the way a business meeting is conducted can be as important as what is presented there, said Ruihua Dong, who leads intercultural training at the World Bank. Hierarchical communication, gender norms and attitudes toward punctuality can differ widely, and knowing the traditions can help visitors avoid misunderstandings, she said.', '“If you show up on time to an important meeting and the local person comes 30 minutes late, it’s not necessarily an insult,” Ms. Dong said. “They just may have a different definition of what is punctual in their culture.”', 'Jeremy Podeswa, who directed six episodes of “Game of Thrones,” travels the world to film the HBO series, managing hundreds of people on sets in three different countries. For him, he said, it was important to know beforehand which cultures don’t mind working overtime and which expect a shorter day on the set. In some cultures, he said, “there is a little more of a feeling that we ‘work to live’ as opposed to ‘living for work.’”', 'Ms. Dong said some countries’ business dealings are more task-oriented while others are relationship-oriented. “A business partner may want to share a meal when you arrive, and you may be thinking, ‘I need to get to work,’” she said. But the social interaction during the meal may set the stage for the tasks ahead.', 'Expert-led tours are becoming more of an option for business travelers seeking to soak up local knowledge. Context Travel, an American tour company, introduced two-hour sessions in some Asian and European cities called “Welcome to…” about three years ago. While the program was originally designed for tourists, Paul Bennett, the company’s founder, said he’s seen a significant increase in session bookings by business travelers over the past year.', 'Each “Welcome to …” session begins with a one-hour introduction to the city and includes maps, basic phrases in the local language and cultural information based on the traveler’s needs. A neighborhood walk follows, including instruction on how to use public transportation if needed. “It sets the traveler up,” Mr. Bennett said.', 'Recent clients booking a “Welcome to…” session included a group of American doctors coming to Shanghai for a medical conference. By learning a bit about cultural customs, local news and the history of the city, the doctors felt they could “accelerate” their conversations with their Chinese counterparts, Mr. Bennett said. They had only a few days to interact on important medical issues, and they hoped to minimize the usual introductory awkwardness and “go deeper and make the most out of their time,” he said.', 'Each area of the world has its own particular practices. Along with personal consultations and regional support teams, the World Bank offers its employees a website with information on how to live and work effectively in 120 locations. “We do it for people coming to the U.S. to work as well,” Mr. Cowan said.', 'Mr. Bennett, of Context, said that some of his business clients were feeling more self-conscious recently about traveling as an American abroad. The “America first” stance of the White House puts them in a defensive position when they go in to negotiate a business deal, Mr. Bennett said. “Business travelers are coming to us to learn about the culture they will be working with because they want to be viewed as partners,” he said.', 'Mr. Udashkin, of Raden, said he liked to absorb the local culture in person. In addition to Seoul, he has traveled to Paris, Milan, London and Hong Kong in the last 18 months to show his suitcases to retailers. He said he would arrive in each city a day or more before his meetings and walk around looking for local taste indicators like the popular models or hues of products like iPhones and Beats headphones.', '“I’m not looking for the outliers,” he said, “I want to know how to fit into the local mainstream.”', 'James Garish is no spelling bee champ, but he never forgot the tricky string of letters that add up to the last name of his kindergarten crush, Elizabeth Stipkovits. He also never forgot the girl behind the name. Which is why he typed it into his laptop one lonely night in 2010 while serving in the Army in Iraq.', '“I was just sitting there in my bunk, and I started wondering how life had turned out for her,” said Mr. Garish, 34. McKeesport, Pa., the working-class city where he and Ms. Stipkovits grew up, wasn’t always reminiscent of picnics and parades for Mr. Garish; he dropped out of school at 14 and spent more than half a decade in dead-end jobs before enlisting in the Army in 2008.', 'Still, he wasn’t immune to homesickness. So upon finding Ms. Stipkovits’s profile on Facebook, he sent a friend request.', 'Ms. Stipkovits, half a world away raising her 6-year-old daughter, Maleena, had no idea who he was. “I saw the request and his name sounded familiar. But I couldn’t place it,” she said. She called her mother, Joy Stipkovits, who did recall a James Garish.', '“She told me I was in kindergarten with him. Then I remembered,” Ms. Stipkovits said. “He was Little Bad Jimmy, the class clown, the holy terror, the one always getting yelled at by the teacher.” That the onetime 5-year-old handful remembered her and her hard-to-spell name stopped her in her tracks. “I thought that said a lot.”', 'The relationship that has unspooled since that 2010 friend request has bound together Mr. Garish and Ms. Stipkovits in a foxhole of determination, love and brokenness. In 2014, when she was 31, Ms. Stipkovits received her first breast cancer diagnosis. Since then, the cancer has returned twice and metastasized. At the end of 2017, she was being treated for cancer in her femur and lung. In January, it had spread to her brain. “Little Bad Jimmy,” now a supervisor at a McKeesport Rite-Aid, has never left her side.', '“We tell people I was his rock when he was in Iraq, and he’s been my rock through the crazy roller-coaster ride of the last four years,” said Ms. Stipkovits, 34. “Chemo has taken a lot of my memory. But he always reminds me he’s been in love with me since kindergarten.”', 'Mr. Garish had only six months left in his three years of active duty when he and Ms. Stipkovits reunited through Facebook. Within weeks, they were phone friends, then long-distance girlfriend and boyfriend. Her calls brought relief from his high-stakes job as an escort for explosive ordnance disposal specialists, the military experts who get rid of explosive weapons.', '“We would go out on up to seven missions a day. Things get a little crazy over there. It was stressful and I was sleep deprived. One of the things I looked forward to most was talking on the phone with Liz,” said Mr. Garish, who was with the third infantry division based at Fort Stewart, Ga.', 'Ms. Stipkovits remembers conversations cut painfully short because of poor reception, and the swell of anticipation mixed with compassion and admiration that would kick in when a call from Iraq reached her in McKeesport.', '“My dad served in Kuwait and is a retired chief in the Navy,” she said. “I knew how Jim felt being away from his friends and family, and that sometimes you just really need someone to vent to.” She was delighted to be his someone. When Mr. Garish impulsively bought a plane ticket home for Christmas in 2010, she was even more delighted by the surprise of him on her front porch.', '“It was dark out and he pulled me close, and it felt good,” Ms. Stipkovits said. “We hadn’t seen each other in a lot of years.” Mr. Garish and Ms. Stipkovits had attended the same schools until eighth grade, shortly before he dropped out. But beyond kindergarten, their classes and social circles never overlapped. “We didn’t miss a beat,” she said.', 'She hadn’t expected such a smooth in-person reunion. Not because she didn’t expect the former unruly schoolboy to be so thoroughly rehabilitated, but because she wasn’t sure how her life as a single mother would look to Mr. Garish from up close. Ms. Stipkovits has never been married and had Maleena at 19.', 'By the following summer, when Mr. Garish completed his service and moved back to McKeesport, he was weaving Maleena into his life, and vice versa. Just as she didn’t expect Mr. Garish to be sympathetic to her single-parent status, she didn’t expect her daughter to fall for the soft-spoken stranger-soldier whose personality had done a U-turn in the 22 years that had passed since kindergarten.', 'But her daughter did. Mr. Garish spent most of that summer at Ms. Stipkovits’s house, coloring and playing games with Maleena while Ms. Stipkovits, then still healthy, worked 9 to 5 as a medical receptionist.', 'Reintegration to civilian life, Mr. Garish was finding, was a process. “It was taking a while. One of the things I noticed was, I was really tense,” he said. “The neighborhood I lived in wasn’t the safest, and I had to give myself time to readjust to the point where I could be in groups of people and not freak out.” Long afternoons spent with Maleena helped. “She’s got her mama’s attitude. She’s a tough little kid.”', 'Mr. Garish had never been married and had no children, but he had previously shown an inclination, maybe fueled by his own difficult school days, to care for them. Before he reunited with Ms. Stipkovits in 2010, he donated much of his first Army paycheck, around $600, to Jamie’s Dream Team, a local charity. The money helped a 6-year-old boy suffering from the genetic disorder Marfan syndrome go on a long-wished-for camping trip.', 'He had nearly forgotten about Jamie’s Dream Team seven years later when the charity offered to throw him and Ms. Stipkovits a wedding. In the whirl of surgeries, chemotherapy and radiation that had become his life with Ms. Stipkovits since they discovered her cancer in 2014, planning a wedding seemed as ridiculous as Ms. Stipkovits’s reaction when he proposed on Aug. 20, 2017.', 'On that day, Ms. Stipkovits, who had a heart condition (a side effect of the cancer treatments), was being fitted with a vest, which acts as a portable defibrillator, at UPMC Shadyside Hospital in Pittsburgh. Mr. Garish, sitting on her bedside, was moved in the moment to ask a question of the heart.', '“He said, ‘I think we deserve something good to happen. Will you marry me?’” Ms. Stipkovits said. He had no ring and only part-time work at a local Rite-Aid. He had, though, a high school equivalency diploma and the G.I. Bill had helped him get into Penn State, where he graduated with a degree in business in 2015. He spends most of his time caring for Ms. Stipkovits and Maleena, now 14.', 'She laughed. “It was just so funny,” she said. “I was in a hospital bed, dying. I looked at him and said, ‘You just want the insurance money.’”', 'But behind the laughter was elation. “I had the same wish every little girl does of a fairy-tale wedding, the crystals and the Cinderella ball gown. And I always told myself that if I found someone who bonded with my daughter in the manner he did, I would marry him. Watching the two of them interact, and the way he’s stuck by me, I would be a fool not to marry him.”', 'She said yes.', 'The fairy-tale fantasy, complete with crystal ball gown, though, was far out of reach. Not only were the hospital stays adding up, so were the hospital bills. Ms. Stipkovits and Maleena are being supported by family and Mr. Garish; she has long been too sick to work.', 'But there are those around McKeesport who believe in making dreams come true.', '“Liz is an amazing young woman. She’s always optimistic and she’s been fighting a long time now,” said Lori McKown, an oncology social worker at the hospital. Doctors have not told Ms. Stipkovits how long she can expect to keep fighting. But “time is of the essence, and I wanted to do something,” Ms. McKown said. In late 2017, she started contacting charities.', '“It was a snowy day and I was sitting at my desk looking out at the window. I thought, ‘This couple wants to get married, and they’re putting their plans off because of her illness,’” she said. A colleague told her about Jamie’s Dream Team.', '“Little did I know her fiancé had donated his first paycheck there,” she said.', 'Jamie Holmes, the founder of Jamie’s Dream Team, hadn’t forgotten Mr. Garish. “I was like, absolutely we’re going to put on a wedding for them,” she said.', 'On Feb. 17, only two months after Jamie’s Dream Team rallied more than a dozen Pittsburgh-area vendors to supply things like flowers, a wedding cake and a photo booth, Mr. Garish and Ms. Stipkovits were married before 200 guests at Old Stone Church in Monroeville, Pa.', 'Ms. Stipkovits, flanked by four bridesmaids and Maleena, her maid of honor, wore a full-length white dress sewn with Swarovski crystals provided by the Exquisite Bride in Murrysville, Pa.; her hair, full despite several years of on-and-off chemotherapy, was swept into a side ponytail. Her father, Joe Stipkovits, walked her down the aisle. Mr. Garish, in a black tuxedo with blue vest instead of his Army uniform, still wore a buzz cut. Capt. Tracy Lostaunau, an Army chaplain from Aspinwall, Pa., was secured by Jamie’s Dream Team to officiate.', 'After a short ceremony punctuated by pauses so Ms. Stipkovits, who is currently on dialysis, could catch her breath and dab at relentless tears, Ms. Stipkovits and Mr. Garish joined their friends and families for a reception at the Cathedral Room at St, Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church in Pittsburgh.', 'Guests, who feasted on fried chicken, baked ziti and macaroni and cheese provided by area restaurants, didn’t seem worried when Ms. Stipkovits fell after Mr. Garish playfully pushed a piece of red velvet cake, iced in pink, toward his new wife’s face. She quickly got up. As her father, Joe Stipkovits said, “This is the most energetic I’ve seen her in quite some time.”', '“We’ve had more trials and tribulations than most married couples have in a lifetime,” Ms. Stipkovits said just before the wedding. “I told Jim, ‘When we say our vows, the only thing we’ll have left to accomplish is till death do us part.’”', 'Her daughter, Maleena, who has been present for all the worries, described her new stepfather succinctly: “He makes her happy and he’s a good dude.”', 'A D.J. provided by Jamie’s Dream Team played, “Because You Loved Me” by Celine Dion for the first dance.” A particular lyric — “You were my strength when I was weak/You were my voice when I couldn’t speak” — had several onlookers in tears while Ms. Stipkovits and Mr. Garish held each other.']