['Freddie Head, 70, is an accomplished trainer in France. He rode a record-tying four winners in the Prix de l’Arc de Triomphe while elevating his family to among the most prominent in horse racing. Three of his Arc victories came aboard horses conditioned by family members: Bon Mot (grandfather, William, 1966), Ivanjica (father, Alec, 1976) and Three Troikas (sister, Christiane, 1979). Head, who was born in France, talked about that rich history and his quest to train an Arc winner, which began in 1997 after he retired as a jockey.', 'The conversation has been edited and condensed.', 'What was it like growing up in such a powerful racing family?', 'I’ve been around racing all my life. I was raised as a jockey by my father and my grandfather. They were the most influential people. They were great assets.', 'Was it always clear you would have a career in racing?', 'Yes, it was. When I was a child, I always wanted to be a jockey. I did not want to be a footballer or a basketball player. I always wanted to be a jockey.', 'What is your greatest moment?', 'Winning the Arc for my grandfather when I was 19. It was my first Arc, my first Group 1 race.', 'What did you say to him afterward?', 'Thank you.', 'That’s it?', 'Yeah, that’s it.', 'What did he say to you?', 'He was very happy, very pleased. I knew he kept on training just for me, to give my career a start.', 'What does it mean to share the record for most Arc wins by a jockey?', 'I am joined by the greatest names in the business. It is something to be proud of, very proud.', 'Was it difficult to make the transition from jockey to trainer?', 'It was a bit difficult. When you are a jockey, you are on your own. You have your saddle and your boots. And then suddenly you have a business with salaries. It takes a bit of time to adapt, but I was lucky enough to have good owners. I was blessed. I knew for a long time that I would be a trainer, so it wasn’t a surprise, really.', 'What is different about training a horse for the Arc?', 'There is nothing special. Maybe I work them a little longer, but I keep the speed in them.', 'What kind of horse is required to win the Arc?', 'You definitely need a horse that will stay the mile and a half and that is fresh, too. After a hard campaign in the spring, they get a bit tired and are not as sharp. You don’t need to run them in the summer, really. You give them a break after the spring.', 'The Arc has been described as “more a monument than a race.” Do you agree?', 'It is a race. But, of course, it is a monument because everybody knows what is the Arc. The world knows about the Arc de Triomphe.', 'Does it make a big difference that you are competing this year at Chantilly  while renovations are completed at  Longchamp?', 'Chantilly’s course is not as testing as Longchamp. The last turn is a bit sharp. You have to be well placed. They don’t come from too way back at Chantilly. Longchamp is a bigger turn, a very wide racecourse. You can do any tactics. You can lead or you can come from behind. It all depends on the pace. It’s a tougher course.', 'Should geldings continue to be excluded?', 'I think so. The goal of horse racing is to get the best. If a gelding should win the Arc, I don’t know that it is a good thing for breeding.', 'What is the key to your family’s success?', 'My father gave us a taste of working. As a trainer, it’s a business where you have to be there and it’s patience, patience.', 'What does it mean to have your son, Christopher (age 30), as your assistant?', 'I’m very happy. I hope one day he will be a trainer himself.', 'How long has he worked for you?', 'Five years.', 'Is there any timetable for him to train on his own?', 'Maybe he will go out on his own sometime next year or in ‘19. We’ll see. We’re not in a hurry.', 'Does he have potential to add to the family legacy?', 'Yes, he likes the game. He’s got everything in his hands.', 'Do you have the same passion for the game as when you started?', 'Yes, I think I have. I love what I do. I loved being a jockey. In my mind, I’ll always be a jockey. But I love training. I like every bit of it.', 'What would it mean to train an Arc winner?', 'Yeah, that would be great. It is the one thing I would love to do. If I had one wish, it is to win the Arc de Triomphe.', 'Why has that been elusive?', 'It is very difficult. I’ve had very good mares, great milers. I’ve never had a good horse over a mile and a half. It may happen one day.', 'LONDON — Unilever said on Thursday that it would make Rotterdam, the Netherlands, its sole headquarters, dealing a symbolic blow to Britain as it negotiates its exit from the European Union.', 'For nearly 90 years, the consumer products giant — whose brands include Dove soap, Lipton tea, Surf detergent, and Ben and Jerry’s ice cream — has straddled the North Sea, maintaining headquarters in London and in the Netherlands.', 'Investors have pushed Unilever for years, however, to eliminate the dual structure, arguing that doing so would make the company more agile and better able to pursue mergers. Unilever said last year that it would review its legal structure after Kraft Heinz briefly flirted with a $143 billion takeover of the company.', 'That review has been complicated, though, by Britain’s planned withdrawal from the European Union, known as Brexit, and fears that the company’s decision could be politicized.', 'Critics of Brexit have argued that leaving the European Union could stifle Britain’s economy, particularly if companies that have used London as a European base decide to move some or all of their operations to the Continent in order to stay within the bloc’s customs rules.', 'British government officials had lobbied hard to persuade Unilever to maintain its London headquarters, in the hopes of avoiding the symbolic blow of a major company being seen to “leave” the country at a delicate time in its negotiations with European Union officials. Unilever officials said on Thursday that Brexit did not factor into the company’s decision.', '“The proposed simplification will provide greater flexibility for strategic portfolio change and help drive long-term performance,” Unilever said in a statement.', 'It said that it would continue to be listed in London, Amsterdam and New York, and that two of its three new divisions would remain based in London: beauty and personal care, and home care. The third division would be located in Rotterdam.', 'Unilever employs about 7,300 people in Britain and 3,100 in the Netherlands; none are expected to be affected by the structural change. The company also said it would continue to spend 1 billion pounds, or about $1.4 billion, a year in Britain, including on research and development.', 'Despite the company’s insistence that it would keep its presence in the British capital, Rajesh Agrawal, the London deputy mayor for business, said the decision was “clearly disappointing news” for the city.', '“It brings into sharp focus the need for the government to secure a Brexit deal that secures London as Europe’s leading business center,” Mr. Agrawal added.', 'Unilever’s two headquarters mirrored its legal structure, in which the company maintained separate stock listings and corporate entities in both countries after its formation by the combination of the British soap maker Lever Brothers and the Dutch margarine producer Margarine Unie in 1930.', 'Each of the two operating companies technically has its own board, but the boards are made up of the same directors and senior management.', 'While unusual, the structure has been used by some of the largest companies with ties to both Britain and the Netherlands. The oil giant Royal Dutch Shell maintained a similar system until 2005, and RELX Group, the business information company that owns LexisNexis Legal and was formerly known as Reed Elsevier, dropped its dual structure this year.', 'As consumers have shied away from traditional brands in favor of products from smaller companies with more natural and organic ingredients, Unilever has tried to keep pace by buying companies like Schmidt’s Naturals, Sundial Brands and Dollar Shave Club in recent years.', 'Nevertheless, simplifying its structure has been a topic at investor meetings for more than a decade.', 'In the end, the unsolicited bid for Unilever by Kraft Heinz, the maker of Heinz ketchup and Oscar Mayer hot dogs, brought the topic to a head. Kraft Heinz withdrew its offer days later on friendly terms, but Unilever said soon after that it would review its structure.', 'As the company pursued a sale of its margarine and spreads business last year, Unilever said, “it was apparent that our dual-headed legal structure adds complexity when undertaking such changes.”', '“Unilever’s dual-headed legal structure does not technically impede its ability to issue equity or demerge assets, but it makes it significantly more complex,” Pinar Ergun, a UBS analyst, said in a recent research note.', 'The consumer goods company said late last year that its board “considers that unification with a single share class would be in the best interests of Unilever and its shareholders as a whole, providing greater ongoing strategic flexibility for value-creating portfolio change.”', 'Unilever had originally hoped to make a decision on its structure by the end of last year, but Paul Polman, its chief executive, told The Financial Times in November that the company had decided to delay it amid rising tensions in the negotiations between Britain and the European Union.', 'Uncertainty about Britain’s future relationship with the bloc has weighed heavily on decision-making by a number of companies as they try to determine how to continue to serve customers in Europe.', 'For example, a number of banks, including HSBC, have announced plans to move some employees to the Continent in order to be able to serve their European customers seamlessly when Britain is set to leave the bloc next year.', 'Other companies have announced plans to stay and made new investments in their British operations. Toyota said this month that it would make the latest generation of its Auris automobile at its plant in Britain after announcing an investment of £240 million (about $335 million) in the Toyota Motors UK business last year.', '“The impact of Brexit may be felt in the future not only as a result of what happens in the U.K., but also as a result of the strong determination of governments of E.U. countries to make their markets more attractive and the new destination for foreign direct investment from multinationals based in the U.K.,” said Carmen Stoian, a lecturer in international business at the Kent Business School at the University of Kent.', 'WASHINGTON — A wave of optimism has swept over American business leaders, and it is beginning to translate into the sort of investment in new plants, equipment and factory upgrades that bolsters economic growth, spurs job creation — and may finally raise wages significantly.', 'While business leaders are eager for the tax cuts that take effect this year, the newfound confidence was initially inspired by the Trump administration’s regulatory pullback, not so much because deregulation is saving companies money but because the administration has instilled a faith in business executives that new regulations are not coming.', '“It’s an overall sense that you’re not going to face any new regulatory fights,” said Granger MacDonald, a home builder in Kerrville, Tex. “We’re not spending more, which is the main thing. We’re not seeing any savings, but we’re not seeing any increases.”', 'The applause from top executives has been largely reserved for the administration’s economic policy agenda. Many chief executives have been publicly critical of President Trump’s approach to social and cultural issues, including his response to a white nationalist march over the summer in Charlottesville, Va., that turned deadly and his decision to withdraw from the Paris climate accord. Two of the business advisory councils that Mr. Trump assembled in the nascent days of his presidency disbanded after executives grew concerned about his public remarks on the violence in Charlottesville.', 'There is little historical evidence tying regulation levels to growth. Regulatory proponents say, in fact, that those rules can have positive economic effects in the long run, saving companies from violations that could cost them both financially and reputationally. Cost-benefit analyses generally do not look just at the impact of a regulation on a particular business’s bottom line in the coming months, but at the broader impact on consumers, the environment, public health and other factors that can show up over years or decades.', 'But in the administration and across the business community, there is a perception that years of increased environmental, financial and other regulatory oversight by the Obama administration dampened investment and job creation — and that Mr. Trump’s more hands-off approach has unleashed the “animal spirits” of companies that had hoarded cash after the recession of 2008.', 'Some businesses will essentially be able to get away with shortcuts that they could not have under a continuation of Obama-era policies. The coal industry, for instance, will not have to worry about a regulation, overturned by Congress and Mr. Trump, that would have protected streams from mining runoff.', 'Brett Hartl, the government affairs director at the Center for Biological Diversity, said the Trump administration might avoid big-splash regulatory rollbacks this year and instead would make it harder for federal agencies to block business expansion.', '“It’s not going to be sexy things like ‘We’re killing the Clean Power Plan,’” Mr. Hartl said, referring to the Obama-era rule aimed at curbing greenhouse gas emissions from coal-fired power plants. “But you can make it systematically harder for an agency to do the right thing.”', 'Only a handful of the federal government’s reams of rules have actually been killed or slated for elimination since Mr. Trump took office. But the president has declared that rolling back regulations will be a defining theme of his presidency. On his 11th day in office, Mr. Trump signed an executive order “on reducing regulation and controlling regulatory costs,” including the stipulation that any new regulation must be offset by two regulations rolled back.', 'That intention and its rhetorical and regulatory follow-ons have executives at large and small companies celebrating. And with tax cuts coming and a generally improving economic outlook, both domestically and internationally, economists are revising growth forecasts upward for last year and this year.', 'Even before it became clear that Republicans would pass a major tax cut, capital spending had risen significantly, climbing at an annualized rate of 6.2 percent during the first three quarters of last year. Surveys of planned spending also show increases.', 'Mr. Trump bragged in a news conference last month that he has rolled back 22 regulations for every new one — 67 deregulatory actions, versus three new regulations. Often in conjunction with the Republican Congress, his administration has canceled several rules approved at the end of the President Barack Obama’s term, including a regulation on limiting mining debris in streams, a requirement that broadband providers obtain permission from customers to collect and use online information, and a ban on plastic bottles in national parks.', 'Administration officials said last month that, since January 2017, federal agencies have delayed, withdrawn or made inactive nearly 1,600 planned regulatory actions. Further rollbacks will affect financial services as well as energy and labor rules, among others.', 'And Mr. Trump has appointed outspoken critics of regulation to lead several federal agencies, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.', 'The evidence is weak that regulation actually reduces economic activity or that deregulation stimulates it. But business executives are largely convinced that the cost of complying with rules diverts money that could be invested elsewhere. And economists see a plausible connection between Mr. Trump’s determination to prune the federal rule book and the willingness of businesses to crank open their vaults. Measures of business confidence have climbed to record heights during Mr. Trump’s first year.', '“The notion that deregulation unleashes growth is virtually impossible to find in the data,” said Jared Bernstein, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities who served as the chief economic adviser to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. “What does matter is this idea that confidence matters. If their expectations about the future are positive, then it does make a difference.”', 'Businesses acknowledge that the most important reason for their increased optimism is the simple fact that the domestic economy continues to expand, with few clouds on the horizon.', 'Better yet, the world’s major economies all are growing for the first time since the financial crisis. Confidence among European manufacturers hit a high in more than a decade, according to European Commission data that goes back to 1985, even without tax cuts or less regulation.', 'In Japan, now in the middle of its longest period of growth since the early 1990s, the central bank said corporate investment was exceeding its expectations, and it raised its forecast.', '“The fundamental backdrop here is that this is a global synchronized expansion lifting everyone’s spirits, from Tokyo to New York,” said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody’s Analytics in West Chester, Pa. “The entire global economy is on one page for the first time in over a decade. We’re all moving in sync and that has everyone feeling good, not just here but across the globe.”', 'The low unemployment in the United States may also be prompting increased spending, just as it did in the 1990s, as corporations invest in technology to make workers more productive, or replace them entirely. Wendy’s is adding self-service kiosks at 1,000 restaurants.', 'But business executives say the Trump administration deserves credit. Mr. MacDonald said home builders have benefited from the killing of regulations written by the Obama administration, including a rule that broadened the definition of wetlands, which could have restricted home building in certain areas. The National Labor Relations Board also reversed a decision that made builders more responsible for the working conditions of their contractors’ employees.', 'In some industries, the administration’s actions will allow companies to engage in activities they might not have been able to otherwise; electric utilities, for example, might be able to invest in upgrading power plants that run on fossil fuels, thanks to a promised rollback of Mr. Obama’s Clean Power Plan to fight climate change.', 'The Business Roundtable, a corporate lobbying group in Washington, reported last month that “regulatory costs” were no longer the top concern of American executives, for the first time in six years. Mr. Zandi said that regulation was still the top concern in Moody’s survey of business confidence, but that it was rapidly losing ground to concerns about the availability of labor.', 'The National Association of Manufacturers’ fourth-quarter member survey found that fewer than half of manufacturers cited an “unfavorable business climate” — including regulations and taxes — as a challenge to their business, down from nearly three-quarters a year ago.', 'Some industries have seen particularly clear changes in fortune. The Trump administration has reversed a number of environmental protections that would have imposed significant costs on energy companies. Mr. Trump’s appointees to the Federal Communications Commission voted last month to repeal so-called net neutrality rules, which treated internet services as a regulated industry, like power lines, and prohibited broadband providers from charging for faster internet service or from blocking or slowing some websites.', 'That decision helped prompt Comcast to announce that it would invest more than $50 billion in infrastructure over the next five years.', 'The banking industry, in particular, has been buoyed by a relaxed approach to financial regulation as the Trump administration moves to ease many of the postcrisis rules put in place to prevent another financial meltdown. The Treasury Department has issued a series of reports calling for sweeping changes to rules required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank law, and a council set up to designate firms that pose risks to the financial system is in the process of removing those companies from heightened federal oversight.', 'Mr. Trump has also installed individuals who have publicly questioned the need for many of the postcrisis rules in major policy roles, including at the Federal Reserve and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. Bank stocks have been on a winning streak and ended 2017 up more than 15 percent, according to the KBW Nasdaq Bank Index.', '“There has been some regulatory fixes for a lot of industries, and they would tell you that matters a lot,” said Jamie Dimon, the chairman of JPMorgan Chase, who also leads the Business Roundtable. “It’s just hard to do a direct correlation. It doesn’t mean it isn’t real.”', 'The confidence is translating to industries that have not, as of yet, seen any obvious benefit or policy changes.', '“We have spent the past dozen years or longer operating in environments that have had an increasing regulatory burden,” said Michael S. Burke, the chairman and chief executive of Aecom, a Los Angeles-based multinational consulting firm that specializes in infrastructure projects. “That burden has slowed down economic growth, it’s slowed down investment in infrastructure. And what we’ve seen over the last year is a big deregulatory environment.”', 'Mr. Burke said he expected the actions to speed future projects for his company, though he declined to offer details, citing competitive risks.', 'The White House sees its efforts as having their intended effect. Mr. Trump boasted about his deregulatory efforts last month at an event where he stood in front of a small mountain of printouts representing the nation’s regulatory burden and ceremonially cut a large piece of “red tape.”', 'The chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, Kevin Hassett, said in an interview that the administration’s freeze on new regulations, in particular, appeared to have buoyed confidence. Though he cautioned that it could take years of research to pin down the magnitude of the effects, he said deregulation was “the most plausible story” to explain why economic growth in 2017 had outstripped most forecasts.', '“Our view is, the ‘no new regulations’ piece has to be more powerful than we thought,” he said.', 'LONDON — The Dutch company Akzo Nobel said on Monday that it was in talks to create a paints industry giant, just months after it repeatedly rebuffed takeover approaches from an American rival, PPG Industries.', 'Akzo Nobel’s discussions to combine its paints business with another rival, Axalta Coating Systems, come with the Dutch company also planning to spin off its specialty chemicals business. Akzo Nobel — which counts Dulux paint among its brands — said those spinoff plans would be unaffected by the discussions with Axalta. The specialty chemicals business had 4.8 billion euros, or about $5.6 billion, in revenue last year.', 'Akzo Nobel, with a market value of about $22 billion, is much larger than Axalta, at $8.1 billion. Spinning off the specialty chemicals business, however, would probably make the two companies closer in size. Akzo Nobel and Axalta said the deal would be a so-called merger of equals.', 'Axalta, based in Philadelphia, makes automobile paints and coatings for auto parts. The company reported net sales of $4.1 billion last year and employs about 13,000 people. The Carlyle Group, an investment firm, acquired Axalta from DuPont for $4.9 billion in 2012 and publicly listed the company the next year.', 'Akzo Nobel fought off a series of takeover approaches from PPG this year. PPG abandoned its pursuit in June.', 'PPG Industries first approached Akzo Nobel about a combination in March, but the Dutch company rejected that offer and two subsequent ones. PPG’s last offer valued the company at $26.4 billion.', 'The repeated rejections sparked a dispute with Elliott Management, an American hedge fund founded by the billionaire Paul E. Singer. Elliott urged Akzo Nobel to engage in talks with PPG, and the fund eventually went to court to try to force a shareholder meeting aimed at replacing Akzo Nobel’s chairman, Antony Burgmans.', 'Mr. Burgmans said in July that he intends to retire next year. That announcement came just days after Akzo Nobel’s chief executive, Ton Büchner, had said he was stepping down immediately for health reasons.', 'Akzo Nobel and Elliott finally reached a truce in August. Akzo Nobel said at the time that Elliott would suspend all litigation for three months, in the hope of “normalizing the relationship with its shareholders.”', 'RIYADH, Saudi Arabia — On a recent trip to Saudi Arabia, Richard Branson, the British entrepreneur who created the Virgin Group, was so inspired by the blue waters along the Red Sea coast that he stripped down to his swimsuit before his helicopter even landed.', 'Since then, he has become one of the Saudi government’s biggest international business allies as it seeks to start three new megaprojects aimed at diversifying its oil-dependent economy.', 'The projects are staggering in their ambition, if short on details. One is a business hub run on sustainable energy and staffed by robots. Another is an entertainment city near the capital, Riyadh. Mr. Branson is considering building inside one of those and is consulting on the third, an eco-tourism complex on islands in the Red Sea.', 'Saudi Arabia is an absolute monarchy historically known for its oil and its hyperconservative version of Islam, which requires women to wear full-length robes in public and gives them fewer legal rights than men. That the kingdom is betting its future on solar power, high tech and entertainment — realms in which it has virtually no background — is a sign of how determined the leadership is to modernize.', 'But serious questions remain about its ability to execute such complex plans, which rely heavily on international interest and money. Investors could balk at putting substantial capital into an often opaque system at a time of such major economic and social change, including granting women the right to drive.', '“My reading is that major investors are teased by what is happening in Saudi but are not yet convinced that they want to put their money where their mouth is,” said James M. Dorsey, senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies in Singapore. “There is a lot of potential here. How realistic that potential is remains to be seen.”', 'The three megaprojects are the brainchildren of the 32-year-old crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, who has proposed sweeping reforms aimed at diversifying the economy away from oil and opening up Saudi society.', 'This week, he welcomed more than 3,500 international investors, bankers and corporate chieftains at a luxurious conference in Riyadh to entice them to invest in the kingdom. In recent years, the kingdom’s Public Investment Fund, the government investing arm that hosted the conference, has put tens of billions into ventures with SoftBank, Blackstone and a Russian government fund, as well as Uber.', 'While some of those beneficiaries are now giving back, others have yet to make concrete investment commitments to the kingdom. And some could merely be seeking to sell goods and services to Saudi Arabia, making profits regardless of how the projects ultimately turn out.', '“This is a place for dreamers that want to create something new in the world,” Prince Mohammed said on Tuesday while unveiling the proposed business and technology hub, NEOM. “We’ll have a lot of partners inside of this room and outside of this room working with us to embody this idea.”', 'Among the project’s goals is encouraging Saudis to spend more money at home, keeping it in the local economy and creating jobs. But the developments will require large government spending and extensive construction, neither of which will quickly increase the state’s non-oil revenue nor create jobs that young Saudis are likely to take.', '“If they had the luxury of waiting for 15 or 20 years until this project generated Saudi jobs, then fine,” said Steffen Hertog, an associate professor at the London School of Economics and the author of a book on the Saudi bureaucracy. But NEOM, he said, “is a speculative project, and by itself it is not going to help with the problems they are going to have in the next five to 10 years.”', 'Saudi Arabia’s record on megaprojects has been mixed. It has succeeded in creating special zones that fostered heavy industry. But other plans, like a network of “economic cities” and a financial district in Riyadh, have fallen far short of their objectives.', 'Some say the difference this time is that Prince Mohammed, who has centralized state power under him, will push projects forward.', '“What you’re experiencing is something that I believe is not the regular way,” said Stephen Schwarzman, a longtime visitor to Saudi Arabia and the chief executive of the private-equity firm Blackstone. “It’s a byproduct of substantial change in the direction of the country.”', 'This week his firm completed a $20 billion Saudi government investment in its planned United States infrastructure fund. He declined to comment on whether Blackstone would invest in the megaprojects.', 'Prince Mohammed’s unveiling of NEOM, the high-tech business hub, was the conference’s headline event. To be built on a barren parcel of land along the Gulf of Aqaba, it is depicted as an eventual haven for sophisticated white collar jobs in biotech, alternative energy and digital services. To help draw labor and capital, it will be exempted from Saudi regulations and very likely offer visa-free travel and other incentives.', 'Over time, its service economy will be staffed by robots, according to promotional materials. To signal the new direction, a robot named Sophia was given Saudi citizenship on Wednesday.', 'The project will be overseen by Klaus Kleinfeld, a German-born executive who ran the industrial conglomerate Siemens and the aluminum company Alcoa.', 'In 2012, under his direction, Alcoa opened a smelter on Saudi’s eastern coast that was hailed as a model of low-cost manufacturing. Four years later, Alcoa’s mining and smelting business was spun off, leaving Mr. Kleinfeld in charge of its parts business, Arconic.', 'Mr. Kleinfeld was ousted from that job this year after making veiled threats to an activist investor who was pressing for changes to the company. After that, he slipped largely out of public sight before resurfacing at the Riyadh conference.', 'Even in its inception, NEOM has involved a number of two-way investments. SoftBank, the Japanese tech giant, recently opened an  investment vehicle, the SoftBank Vision Fund, with a $45 billion contribution from Saudi Arabia. The fund is considering buying a stake in the Saudi Electricity Company, and this past week announced plans to help the utility develop solar energy next year.', 'Mr. Branson’s  space companies will receive at least $1 billion from Saudi Arabia. He, in turn, is contemplating building “one or two” hotels in the new cities, he said during an interview in Riyadh.', 'And Kirill Dmitriev, the chief executive of the Russian Direct Investment Fund, said Thursday that the fund would put “billions” into bringing sophisticated Russian companies into NEOM. His country received a $10 billion investment in 2015 as well as its first monarchical visit from the kingdom, when King Salman, Prince Mohammed’s father, went to Moscow this month.', '“We are very impressed and amazed by the energy that we see in Saudi Arabia by him getting all of the right partners, and we know that many top technology companies are here, willing to invest in this project,” Mr. Dmitriev said.', 'If NEOM is imagined as Silicon Valley in the Middle East, Qiddiya, the entertainment city, could be its Walt Disney World. A conference exhibition showcasing Qiddiya featured a lion hologram as well as simulated racecar drives and roller coaster rides. Mr. Branson’s Virgin has created renderings of a possible space-tourism site, for which his Galactic space-travel unit would be a potential consultant. Six Flags said last year that it was contemplating construction of a theme park near Riyadh; its current thinking is unclear.', '“Right now there’s a great deal of money that leaves the country and goes to different areas,” said Ariel Emanuel, a founder of the talent agency the Endeavor Company, a holding company based in Beverly Hills, Calif., which owns sports, television, fashion and other entertainment businesses. Six months ago, he met with Prince Mohammed in Jidda to discuss the kingdom’s vision for the new city.', '“I think we could play a pretty important role kind of in bringing entertainment in many different forms,” said Mr. Emanuel. Hs company is also angling for an investment from the Saudi government fund. “We’re having conversations,” he said.', 'Mr. Branson’s quick dip happened near the site of the third project, The Red Sea, a location for luxury hotels and ecotourism. Mr. Branson, who owns and lives on Necker Island in the Caribbean, said he was astonished by the animal life during his visit to the Saudi islands, including manta rays and sea turtles laying eggs. He is on the project’s board and is contemplating investing there.', '“One of the advantages I suppose you could say of Saudi being sort of not open — not open at all, really, since 1979 — has been that these pristine places have been preserved,” he said. “I want to help give my advice as to how to develop it so that in 50 years’ time, people can go and see it as virgin and beautiful.”']