['GUAYNABO, P.R. — Miriam Gonzalez stepped outside her shuttered restaurant in this municipality near San Juan and offered an exaggerated grin. “This is my happy face,” Ms. Gonzalez, 52, said, her voice heavy with mockery. “It’s a very happy face. We all have it on.”', 'Every morning, Ms. Gonzalez puts on this happy face like a coat of makeup to ward off the depression that has festered since Hurricane Maria shut down her restaurant, trampled its well-tended garden and crushed her usually upbeat spirit.', 'Like much of the island, she has gone without electricity since the storm hit on Sept. 20, making do with glowing lanterns, a gas barbecue grill, daily trips to the grocery store and wide open windows to stay cool. The Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority’s grid is working at less than 50 percent, leaving much of the island in the dark. For Ms. Gonzalez and other residents, the catastrophe of Hurricane Maria has been followed by an economic disaster with no end in sight.', 'Manuel A. Laboy Rivera, the secretary of Puerto Rico’s Department of Economic Development and Commerce estimated the economic losses at a minimum of $20 billion, although some economists and analysts put it as high as $40 billion, much of it from the drop in productivity. Puerto Rico’s economy is already $70 billion in debt and will be hard hit by the steep drop in tax revenue.', '“The lack of power is the root of everything,” Mr. Laboy Rivera said. “This is a very challenging time right now for Puerto Rico.’’', 'Countless small businesses, like Ms. Gonzalez’s, remain closed because they do not have power or a working generator (there is an epidemic of broken generators). On an island driven by tourism, many hotels are not open for guests. Manufacturers have operated in fits and starts.', 'At the unemployment office in Bayamón, about a 20-minute drive from Ms. Gonzalez’s restaurant, hundreds line up every weekday morning to try to collect emergency unemployment benefits. More than 22,000 applied in October, compared with 6,800 in the same month last year, according to the Puerto Rico Department of Labor.', 'Others are simply leaving the island: As of Tuesday, 156,000 people have arrived in Fort Lauderdale, Miami and Orlando, Fla., on planes from Puerto Rico since the storm. Many of them are professionals and middle-class workers who have fled the island because their jobs disappeared and they can no longer live without power. They are likely to stay on the mainland, a crushing blow to the island’s fragile tax base and its ability to generate jobs. Government officials estimate that as many as 300,000 people on an island with 3.4 million could eventually leave.', 'Kesia Rivera, 29, who used to manage an insurance company, is thinking about joining her five brothers and sisters on the mainland. “I have a lot of expenses,” she said as she waited to fill out an application.', '“There’s food. The kids’ stuff. My car was damaged by bad gas and I can’t fix it because it’s expensive. I don’t have a job, and I don’t have money,” she said. “It’s hard to find jobs right now; businesses don’t have money to pay employees.”', 'Chuck Watson, director of research and development at Enki Research, a disaster research and modeling company, said the lack of electricity had severely compounded Puerto Rico’s economic challenges. He called the government’s goal to restore power by mid-December “beyond wishful thinking.”', 'Without power, the economic losses will quickly multiply, Mr. Watson said.', '“Once you uproot from Puerto Rico and come to the U.S. mainland, are you really going to want to go back, given the other issues, like the Puerto Rican government and the unemployment, a number that will be catastrophic?” he said. “In New Orleans, there is a lot that left after Katrina and never came back.”', 'Tourism is among the hardest hit, Mr. Laboy Rivera said. About 30 percent of hotels remain closed, a number that has improved in the past two weeks. The loss in convention money is considerable, Mr. Laboy Rivera said. Most hotels that are open continue to house hurricane relief workers.', 'Manufacturing, which makes up 48 percent of the island’s economy and accounts for a third of the tax revenue, was bedeviled by the lack of power, structural damage, debris-strewn roads and, most recently, generator breakdowns. Many businesses, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology and medical-device companies, have struggled to reach their pre-hurricane production and shipping goals, although the situation is rapidly improving.', '“These companies have options, and the moment you start putting at risk the global supply chain, you have a big problem,” Mr. Laboy Rivera said.', 'Restaurants are either booming or flailing. Cooking at home without power is not easy, so restaurants with generators have plenty of business. But many suffered structural damage, did not have generators that were powerful enough or could not fix them when they broke.', 'The Association of Restaurants in Puerto Rico said that about 1,800 of its 5,000 member restaurants, including some belonging to major chains, have not yet reopened. Generator breakdowns often prompt restaurants to close abruptly and repair parts can take weeks to arrive. A large new generator can cost upward of $40,000. It remains unclear how many of the smaller restaurants will be able to reopen, said Ramon Leal, the group’s president.', '“Some days we open 50 restaurants and close 50 restaurants,” Mr. Leal said. The bigger problem, he said, is “we are losing tons of people from the restaurant industry. They are moving to Miami, Orlando, Atlanta, New York.”', 'Just as worrisome as the exodus, said Mr. Laboy Rivera, is the blow to the island’s small and medium businesses, which provide 80 percent of the jobs. These include accounting companies, advertisers, hair salons, law offices, media, medical labs and retail stores. As many as 50,000 of these businesses had not reopened as of the beginning of the month, he estimated.', 'On Calle Esmeralda, a once-busy commercial strip, Ms. Gonzalez’s charming farm-to-table restaurant, Believe, had flourished before Maria, taking in up to $4,000 a day. Now she makes a fraction of that cooking hamburgers and shish kebabs on a portable grill out front, where locals sip beer on plastic chairs.', 'Ms. Gonzalez had a small generator for a couple of days but it broke down. She has waited weeks for repair parts and worries that the package, like so many others, might get stolen. Even if it arrives, finding someone to fix the generator is almost impossible. So is buying a new one.', 'The low point, she said, was laying off her 15 employees.', '“That killed me,” she said. “I would lie here,” she added, stretching out on a bench, “with quartz on my forehead, chest and stomach, asking for electricity. I went to church, and I’m not a church person. I sat there and said, ‘Please bring the power back.’ ” Ms. Gonzalez said she cried so much she “dried up.”', 'Many nearby stores are closed, she said. At Peekaboo, a printing and school supply shop across the street, the owners said they had no plans to reopen. They have no generator and are afraid of being robbed. Next door, at Brain Games, the owner is on the mainland, unsure of whether to reopen. A spa and a restaurant across the street are dark.', 'Not all suffer equally. Hurricanes reward some industries, like construction, which had been moribund here for a decade. But the real boom is in joblessness.', 'Leisha Otero drove from Morovis, a mountain town turned inside out by Hurricane Maria, to the unemployment line in Bayamón. Having lost her small house and her $10-an-hour job as a practical nurse at a medical lab in Vega Alta, she came for news on her application for lost wages. But there was no word, only instructions to wait for a letter of approval from the federal government.', '“I’m a nurse, a stylist, a nail technician,” she said, as her two children scrolled through photos on her cellphone.', 'Ms. Otero’s 11-year-old son, who has epilepsy, contracted a bacterial disease from rodents shortly after the storm. His fever spiked at 103, he couldn’t stop vomiting and his lips were gray. She rushed him to the hospital. He is fine now, but she worries that his epilepsy medicine will run out and that his doctors will leave for the mainland. And, without a job, she has no health insurance.', 'Her husband has already left, for Boston, where he found work in a factory. Her brother, a nurse, and his wife left for North Carolina. Ms. Otero said she had no choice. After stopping at the unemployment office, she would head for the airport with her children to reserve flights to Boston.', '“It hurts my heart, seeing this all destroyed, and I love it so much,” Ms. Otero said. “Who knows when the businesses will reopen? They were already struggling before the storm.”', 'A government panel reviewing Broadcom’s $117 billion bid for Qualcomm has warned that it may refer the potential deal to President Trump for rejection, further dimming the prospects for what would be the biggest technology takeover in history.', 'In a letter to the two companies on Sunday, the panel, the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, said that it believed the offer by Broadcom posed national security concerns. Broadcom is currently headquartered in Singapore, but is in the process of relocating its legal base to the United States to allay those issues.', 'The threat by the panel, known as Cfius, could stop in its tracks Broadcom’s monthslong quest to buy its fellow chip maker. Cfius already ordered a one-month delay of Qualcomm’s annual shareholders’ meeting, where Broadcom had been expected to win at least some seats on Qualcomm’s board, if not a majority.', 'Under Mr. Trump, several deals involving foreign buyers have been squelched after a Cfius review, including Moneygram’s sale to an affiliate of the Alibaba Group and Lattice Semiconductor’s sale to an investment firm with reported ties to the Chinese government.', 'Broadcom has been eager to speed up the process of bringing its headquarters back to the United States to address national security concerns about its campaign. On Friday, the company announced that it would move up a shareholders’ vote on the move to March 23 from May 6. That would let Broadcom relocate by April 3, ahead of Qualcomm’s rescheduled shareholder meeting.', 'But in its letter on Sunday, Cfius said that it believed Broadcom had violated the panel’s order by moving up its relocation date without enough consultation with the government.', 'In a statement, Broadcom said that its $117 billion plan to buy Qualcomm was always contingent on relocating its headquarters. The company added that it had been open with the government about its plans to relocate, both in announcements since November and in discussions with Cfius.', 'The iPhone helped to catapult Apple into its position as the world’s most valuable publicly traded company. But now Apple has another and, arguably, more exalted stock market distinction.', 'In the history of the markets since 1926, Apple has generated more profit for investors than any other American company.', 'That conclusion emerges from a study of stock market returns by Hendrik Bessembinder, a finance professor at the W. P. Carey School of Business at Arizona State University. His broad findings on the market are startling: Most stocks aren’t good investments. They don’t even beat the paltry returns of one-month Treasury bills, he has found.', 'But a relative handful of stocks are extraordinary performers. Only 4 percent of all publicly traded stocks account for all of the net wealth earned by investors in the stock market since 1926, he has found. A mere 30 stocks account for 30 percent of the net wealth generated by stocks in that long period, and 50 stocks account for 40 percent of the net wealth.', 'I’ve written about Professor Bessembinder’s broad findings before, and several readers asked to see all the stocks in the professor’s lifetime wealth creation list. So at my request, he updated his calculations through December 2016 and provided fresh rankings in his paper “Do Stocks Outperform Treasury Bills.” We’ve reproduced the crucial elements here, with an important revision: Today, in the iPhone’s 10th anniversary year, Apple is No. 1.', 'In a phone conversation, Professor Bessembinder reminded me that the stock market is a moving target and that his rankings, while valid through the end of 2016, don’t capture the sharp movements of this calendar year. In his 2016 rankings, Exxon Mobil, not Apple, appears at the top, with net wealth creation of more than $1 trillion. Apple lags at about $745 billion.', 'But it has been a wild year. Exxon Mobil shares have declined more than 11 percent at a time of weak energy prices, while Apple, which just introduced a raft of new iPhones, is on a spectacular stock surge, gaining more than 37 percent.', 'Run the numbers as I did, and it’s clear that at this moment, Apple has pulled ahead of Exxon Mobil, with total net wealth creation of somewhere in the vicinity of $1 trillion. Counting dividends, Exxon Mobil’s losses in the stock market have reduced its total to a bit over $910 billion. (Note that, as a technical matter, Professor Bessembinder defines net wealth creation as total stock returns in excess of one-month Treasury bill returns, which averaged an annualized 3.38 percent, so the actual stock returns for Apple, Exxon, and the others are even higher than indicated.)', '“It’s remarkable that Apple has generated so much wealth in such a short period of time,” he said. “Exxon has had decades to pile up those returns.”', 'Exxon is among the top wealth-creating companies that have been publicly trading — under the name of a predecessor, Standard Oil of New Jersey — since the inception of Professor Bessembinder’s tally in July 1926. Others include General Electric, IBM, Altria, Coca-Cola, DuPont, PepsiCo and Schlumberger.', 'He relied on a database developed at the University of Chicago, known as CRSP, for the Center for Research in Security Prices, that contains virtually all publicly traded stocks in the United States. The Center for Research uses rigorous and logical criteria to determine when stocks enter and depart its listings, with some results that may seem surprising at first glance.', 'General Motors, for example, ranks eighth. It was publicly traded in 1926, but the list says it ceased to exist in June 2009. A company called General Motors exists today, of course, but as Chloe Fu, senior support and relationship manager at the Center for Research in Security Prices, explained it, G.M.’s bailout and bankruptcy led the center to declare the old company terminated, with a new G.M. coming to life in June 2009. Consequently, the new G.M. returns aren’t included in the total for G.M. on the list.', 'The list is a fascinating ranking of big winners in the stock market. But for a variety of technical reasons, it isn’t a straightforward table of the greatest wealth generators in market history. For example, the long-term gains generated by Exxon Mobil and its predecessors are understated because of the database’s limited duration and strict criteria.', 'Exxon Mobil’s wealth in the list doesn’t include Mobil’s, which Professor Bessembinder’s listing says, ceased to exist in November 1999, when it merged with Exxon. And going back further, both Exxon and Mobil were among the descendants of the Standard Oil trust, established by John D. Rockefeller and his partners in the 19th century. The total wealth generated by the cluster of companies derived at least partially from the trust — which also include Amoco and Chevron — doesn’t appear in a single notation, because of the list’s logic.', 'Other apparent oddities are explained by Professor Bessembinder’s application of the center’s criteria. There are two companies on the list called AT&T, for example, neither capturing the total net wealth generated by an investment in the old American Telephone and Telegraph Company at its 19th century inception.', 'To start with, the “old” AT&T, a.k.a. “Ma Bell,” is ranked 17th. It is said to have gone out of existence in November 2005. Another AT&T appears in the 33rd spot. That company came to life in March 1984 as Southwestern Bell, spun off from the old AT&T as a result of an antitrust suit. A descendant of Southwestern Bell bought the AT&T name in 2005 and operates under it today.', 'Other AT&T cousins are on the list: Verizon, as well as Comcast, which resulted from a merger between AT&T Broadband and an older company also known as Comcast.', 'The listings for most of the recently created companies are less tangled.', 'As I wrote in July, Amazon, which started trading in 1997, has soared to the 14th spot. Although it hasn’t been in existence long compared with Exxon Mobil, its annualized return is the highest in the list, 37.4 percent through December. A group of young companies have also had remarkable results.', 'Facebook, which started trading in June 2012, is the youngest on the list, with an annualized return of 34.5 percent. Visa, which had its initial public offering of stock in 2008, is the second-newest company, with a 21 percent annualized return, followed by Alphabet (Google), ranked 11th with a 24.9 percent annualized return.', 'And then there is that great wealth machine, Microsoft, ranked as the third-greatest wealth creator. Since 1986, it has had an annualized return of 25 percent, making its founder, Bill Gates, the richest man in the world, with a net worth of more than $87 billion, according to Bloomberg.', 'No list of wealth-generating companies is complete without Berkshire Hathaway. It ranks 12th, just behind Alphabet, with an annualized return of 22.6 percent. By comparison, Exxon Mobil’s annualized return was only 11.94 percent.', 'Why is Berkshire’s annualized return so much higher?', 'It is because the return doesn’t include decades of mediocre performance for the old textile company Berkshire Hathaway, which started in 1929. The Center for Research says the Berkshire on this list started in November 1976. It was a holding company for Warren E. Buffett, who guided it to fabulous gains. Thanks to Berkshire, Mr. Buffett is a rich man, with a net worth estimated by Bloomberg at $79 billion.', 'Anyone who invested in Apple or Microsoft or, really, in any of these companies at their inception and just held on did extraordinarily well. You might look at that record and conclude that you should just buy the best companies as a foolproof way to get rich.', 'If only it were that easy.', 'How do you find those companies? Not here.', '“The problem is, I have no idea which companies will generate the best returns over the next 10 or 20 or 30 years, “ Professor Bessembinder said. “Probably it will be some companies we’ve never heard of. Maybe it will be companies that don’t even exist now.”', 'This list is worth studying for understanding the past. But, unfortunately, it’s not a guide to the future, except for this: “In a market where most of the gains are attributable to a few big winners that are hard to identify in advance,” Professor Bessembinder said, “it makes a lot of sense to diversify your position — to avoid the danger of omitting the big winners from your portfolio.”', 'This interview with Richelieu Dennis,  chief executive of Sundial Brands, a beauty products company, was conducted and condensed by Adam Bryant.', 'Q. What were your early years like?', 'A. I was born and raised in Liberia in West Africa. My mother is Sierra Leonean and my father’s Liberian. I grew up at a time when there was a lot of civil unrest in both countries, so when something would happen in Liberia, we’d go to Sierra Leone, and when something would happen in Sierra Leone, we’d go back to Liberia. We moved to save our lives.', 'How dangerous was it day-to-day?', 'There were a lot of times when you’d go to school one morning and you’d come home and certain people in the neighborhood would be gone and you’d never see them again. There were student protests, and people were shot, beaten and put in prison.', 'I was fortunate enough to get a scholarship to go to college in the United States. By the time I graduated, we had a full-blown civil war in both Liberia and Sierra Leone. I couldn’t go home. We started making soap and selling it on the street. We built up the company to where it is today.', 'Tell me about your parents.', 'My father ran an insurance company, but he passed away when I was 8. My mother was an economist working for the government of Liberia. But both my grandmothers were entrepreneurs in rural West Africa.', 'I learned from them early on that business could impact the future of generations, just based on your ideas and your willingness to drive those ideas to fruition. When it’s your only option, there’s a certain level of stick-to-itiveness that gets ingrained.', 'What are the influences of your parents and grandparents on your leadership style?', 'Well, it’s hard not to see influences of my mother because she’s my business partner, and she’s cracking the whip all day on me. We started the business together, along with my college roommate, Nyema Tubman. Except for my college years, I’ve lived with my mother all my life.', 'Not to split hairs, but is she living with you, rather than you living with her?', 'Yeah, but she will never describe it that way. I also have four daughters, so I am heavily influenced by women.', 'My mother is a very compassionate leader. She’s very focused on the idea that it’s not what you do, it’s how you do it, and that people always remember how you make them feel. So treat them the way that you want to be treated and make them feel the way that you want to feel.', 'That has been a guiding principle for me around leadership.', 'It must have been a bit of a culture shock coming to the U.S. for the first time.', 'Part of the culture shock was all of a sudden not having to worry about where I was when the sun went down. It would be 8 o’clock and nobody’s running inside because of government curfews.', 'It wasn’t just the freedom to move, but also the freedom to express an idea and go after it, was quite shocking for me.', 'What were some early leadership lessons?', 'The biggest speed bump for me early on was that when I hired people, I expected them to be as good as they said they were on their résumé. So I had to work with them a lot more than I anticipated in order to get them up to speed.', 'Because we were building everything from scratch, we didn’t have the infrastructure in place to support what they knew how to do. A lot of people can come in and run something. Even fewer people can build it. So I needed to start building and laying in foundations and infrastructure and process in order for these people to be successful.', 'Other insights along the way?', 'I learned how to reach out to people, to seek out mentors, to understand how to do things. At first I didn’t realize I could do it. But even competitors were receptive and willing to talk to me. I try to do that now myself. If there’s something that I’ve learned along the way that I can pass along, I’m always happy to help people.', 'You faced a backlash on social media last spring for an ad that featured mostly white women. It struck many as wrongheaded, given that many of your customers are women of color.', 'The ad didn’t go through proper channels, and we immediately owned our mistake and set out to restore trust. A critical lesson I learned is that we have to make sure all our employees, particularly new hires, have a full immersion in our culture. We’ve nearly doubled in size in the last two years and we’re experiencing some challenges that come with that growth.', 'How do you hire?', 'The big thing I want to understand in an interview is whether somebody is coming here to build a business or to build a career. I think you can build a career by building a business. I don’t think you can build a business by simply building a career.', 'The second thing is, are you going to contribute to building our cultural infrastructure? That requires flexibility of thought, which is as important as diversity of thought. It might mean giving up an office to work in an open layout.', 'I can get a pretty good sense of what matters to them by the questions they ask me, rather than the questions I ask them.', 'What career and life advice do you give to new college grads?', 'To get to a certain level of leadership and success, you have to have conviction in what you’re doing. You have to have the stomach to stick to what you’re doing because the challenges that you’ll face, whether you’re building a business or leading people, are going to be many.', 'So make sure that you’re willing to stick with what you believe in. We’ve been doing this for 26 years. It took me 16 years just to get our products on a retailer’s shelf.', 'There is something telling about the moments when we, as a culture, all agree to make a change that feels right and good and true, then go on behaving in approximately the same way that we did before. Consider the September issue of Allure. On the cover, the 72-year-old actress Helen Mirren wears the tattooed arm of a 20-something guy slung around her neck as if it’s the hot new accessory. Allure calls her “the hero we need” as the magazine enlists the beauty industry in its new pet cause: “the end of anti-aging.”', 'Inside, the editor Michelle Lee resolves to stop using the term “anti-aging” in her pages going forward, opting instead for a “celebration of growing into your own skin — wrinkles and all.” This is not to say that she will stop promoting products that promise to make women look younger: As she puts it, “No one is suggesting giving up retinol.” What Lee wants to change, at least to start with, is the “packaging and marketing” used to sell retinol. She seeks to embrace euphemism: “Changing the way we think about aging,” she writes, “starts with changing the way we talk about aging.” Elsewhere in the issue, an ad for a new L’Oréal Paris moisturizer — part of the Age Perfect line — promises to “get your rosy tone back” through a pseudoscientific process that “stimulates cell turnover from within” using ingredients like “Imperial Peony” and “LHA.” That ad also stars Helen Mirren.', 'The only real solution to aging is, of course, death, but our central mode of dealing with that inevitability is to delay and deny it. “In an era in which people actually live longer and longer,” Susan Sontag wrote in the 1972 essay “The Double Standard of Aging,” “what now amounts to the latter two-thirds of everyone’s life is shadowed by a poignant apprehension of unremitting loss.” In this culture, to age is to be erased — to be deemed irrelevant, disappear from magazine covers and popular films and get tucked away into facilities, managed and cared for. For women, it also means being turned from a coveted object into a disposable one. We spend our lives fighting our own disappearance.', 'Corporate interests have discovered that they can make a killing by selling coping mechanisms. The beauty industry grapples with all of this psychodrama most literally, constantly pushing the right psychological buttons to gain entrance to our medicine cabinets. It’s not just the elixirs themselves: The images, the celebrity spokespeople, the branded jargon and sales copy all work toward the same goal. They must paper over large and knotty things — our discomfort over our own mortality, our deep-rooted habit of valuing women largely in terms of their attractiveness, our growing sentiment that both ageism and gender roles ought to be things of the past — with a cheery promise that a little face cream will help.', 'Every woman is always getting older. And in the century or so that the beauty industry has been hawking products to try to fix that problem, the goods themselves haven’t necessarily evolved: A 1908 issue of Woman Beautiful magazine promoted a multiproduct home regimen for fighting facial wrinkles that sounds something like today’s, combining an astringent, creams and an electric vibrator massage. The branding, however, has evolved in a ceaseless process of linguistic renewal, constantly shifting to exploit generational mood swings concerning how a woman should be. To the beauty industry, “changing the way we talk about aging” is not a challenge; it’s an invitation to spin old products to new consumers.', 'Early on, the need for facial treatments was typically located in the desires of men. In the 1930s and ’40s, Palmolive ran a series of bluntly shaming ads in magazines like Good Housekeeping and Farmer’s Wife. The soap company invented the problem of “\u2009‘middle-age’ skin,” a condition it claimed could afflict women as young as 22, then blamed it for all kinds of romantic disappointments, from “girls with empty date books” to the wife who “loses love.” (One ad featured an illustration of Cupid, sitting with his head in his hands, crying, “I give up!”) The judgmental gaze of other women also played a role. A 1926 ad for an in-store facial treatment blares, “Poor Lois — see how old she’s growing!” Female self-loathing was acknowledged openly. One ad asks, “Is it the greatest crisis of a woman’s emotional life?” Meaning: “that sudden, merciless message from a mirror’s crystal depths ... ‘you are fading, just a bit.’\u2009”', 'These campaigns framed women as desperate, waiting helplessly for a product to save them from the humiliation of age. The past few decades, though, plunged us into a very different way of thinking — the Golden Age of “anti-aging.” The ads shifted from cautionary tales to stories of inspiration, in which plucky women successfully race against time to take charge of their own looks. Social shaming was sublimated into an aggressive personal narrative. Militarized language became chic: Advertisements started instructing women to “tackle,” “combat” and “fight against” aging, to stage an “intervention” on their skin. Revlon’s Age Defying makeup told the consumer, of her advancing age: “Don’t deny it. Defy it.” In this model, age is a war waged on a woman’s face, and it can never be won — only “slowed” or prevented from “advancing,” like an occupying force.', 'All along, the Food and Drug Administration has periodically issued warnings about clinical-sounding language on anti-aging products, which habitually play with the aura of science while eschewing its requirements for actual evidence and tests. If old ads worked to construct social shame, this emphasis on science works to move beauty standards into the realm of the objective, presenting the ideal look — the ideal existence — as scientifically, and not culturally, determined. The women buying these products, the ads suggested, weren’t ashamed: They were savvy.', 'All of this dovetailed with a whole cultural celebration of “aging well,” in which not displaying the signs of age on one’s face is seen as a professional accomplishment, even a virtue. We elevate a select few celebrity ambassadors of “good” aging — Mirren, Sandra Bullock, Halle Berry, Andie MacDowell — and turn them into not just avatars of covetable good looks, but fierce, audacious heroines who are celebrated for pulling off the near-impossible. Television-series reboots and family reunions are opportunities to assess how people’s faces have stood the test of time and congratulate those who appear most similar to their past selves. There’s a dark, “Picture of Dorian Gray” undercurrent to it all: Each sign of wear on your face might be taken as evidence of your failure as a person.', 'As the business of fighting aging has consumed the culture, it has produced a secondary aversion — not just to the signs of aging but to the signs that we’re trying to stop the signs of aging. This is why the unnatural signs of face-lifts and Botox can be so unnerving: They remind us not only that we are all getting older but also that we’re trying so desperately not to be, and mostly failing.', 'Marketers are adapting accordingly. Allure’s anti-anti-aging campaign is just one part of a bigger cultural wave, advancing past the combative mode and toward the assuaging language of personal acceptance. In 2007, Dove — always ahead of the curve in “empowering” marketing trends — introduced a product line called Pro-Age with a campaign featuring models in their 50s and 60s. (The double entendre in “Pro-Age” is masterful: It sounds as if it’s about embracing the advancing years, while also hinting that you wouldn’t want to age like some amateur.) These days, the beauty industry is preparing to transcend the wrinkle entirely: The new scheme is obsessed with coding products as all-natural, eco-friendly and wellness-promoting elements of “self-care.”', 'This year, as Kiehl’s rolled out a new product called Pure Vitality Skin Renewing Cream, a rep told The Los Angeles Times that “we don’t talk about lines and wrinkles”; instead they speak of “healthy” and “radiant” skin. They’ve also swapped out the scientific jargon, instead pitching “natural” ingredients with global back stories, like manuka honey from New Zealand and red ginseng root from South Korea. As ever, beauty expectations for women haven’t been revised so much as they’ve been rebranded, with words like “renewing” and “vitality” and “radiant” serving as cutting-edge euphemisms for “youthful.” The implication hiding beneath is an unsettling one. You may think the stigma against older people is social, a construction of our culture and what it chooses to value. The ads suggest otherwise: Youth, they seem to say, is simply natural.', 'Natural and, of course, easy. The new and healthy-sounding imperative is to age breezily — to not make too big a fuss about either getting old or trying not to. We’re loath to confront the undignified lengths we will go to in our fight against aging and mortality, whether it’s in the “feminine” pursuit of looking younger or the wealthy man’s pursuit of life extension, which comes complete with its own ghastly para-scientific fads: intermittent fasting, blood transfusions from teenagers, human-growth-hormone injections, cryonics. We nod and agree that we should embrace our wrinkles while quietly understanding that none of us, individually, want to be the one who actually looks old.', 'James H. Simons, a reserved mathematician and hedge fund operator from Boston now approaching 80, is a big Democratic donor. Warren A. Stephens, a 60-year-old golf enthusiast once called the king of Little Rock, Ark., inherited a family investment bank and became a booster of conservative Republicans.', 'But Mr. Simons and Mr. Stephens are both billionaires who have used the services of offshore finance — the trusts and shell companies that the world’s wealthiest people use to park their money beyond the reach of tax collectors and out of the public eye.', 'Mr. Simons was the main beneficiary of a private trust, never previously described, that was one of the largest in the world. In response to recent questions about the trust, Mr. Simons said that he had transferred his share to a Bermuda-registered charitable foundation.', 'Mr. Stephens used an opaque holding company to own an approximately 40 percent stake in a loan business accused by the federal Consumer Financial Protection Bureau of cheating working-class and poor Americans. While earning millions from the investment, Mr. Stephens helped finance a political onslaught against the bureau, never mentioning his personal connection to the fight.', 'The details of the two men’s hidden wealth come from the files of Appleby, founded in Bermuda more than a century ago and considered one of the world’s top offshore law firms. A collection of 6.8 million Appleby documents, obtained by the German newspaper Süddeutsche Zeitung and shared with media organizations through the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists, offers an inside look at the firm’s services and customers.', 'Appleby operates in a rarefied universe of ultra-high-net-worth individuals, where yachts and private jets are preferred transport and mansions sit empty because their owner has several others. Some of Appleby’s customers are also P.E.P.’s — politically exposed persons — for whom avoiding unwanted attention is a crucial goal.', '“The Right People. The Right Places,” reads the slogan on Appleby’s stationery.', 'What offshore services offer to a diverse international elite is secrecy and discretion, along with the opportunity to minimize or defer taxes. Appleby appears to be more scrupulous than another offshore firm, Panama-based Mossack Fonseca, about shunning overtly corrupt and criminal clients, based on a comparison of the Appleby files with the leaked Panama Papers, which drew global coverage last year.', 'Appleby board minutes contain lists of “declined business,” including government officials suspected of corruption and millionaires linked to organized crime.', 'Still, some dubious clients slip through. A PowerPoint slide used by Appleby’s head of compliance discusses terrorist financing and refers to funds that were “definitely tainted.”', '“Some of the crap we accept is amazing totally amazing,” say notes to a slide about sizing up potential customers.', 'Even with some potential customers turned away, business has rarely been better. The ranks of the superrich are growing fast, fueled by legitimate fortunes in finance, trade and technology — as well as drugs, embezzlement and bribery. And the offshore finance industry has grown alongside its customers’ accounts.', 'The global number of wealthy people with more than $50 million in assets is about 140,900, half of them in the United States, according to a recent report from Credit Suisse.', 'A 2015 Appleby publication written for such clients, “Wealth Structuring 20:20,” features photos of a handsome couple and their children hurrying to board a sleek personal jet. “Wealth seeks out safe harbours,” one article is titled. Another advises on “Motivating children of means.”', 'In emails, Appleby employees fret about how to pamper well-heeled clients.', '“Our fees are around 40k and they are the sort of people who I think would appreciate popping a bottle on closing at Appleby this afternoon,” a lawyer in the firm’s Grand Cayman office wrote in 2008 of a particular deal. “Do you have the key to the booze vault? It would need to be decent stuff as they’ll know their champagne.”', 'The legal boilerplate in the leaked documents can be eye-glazing until, as in a 2015 financing agreement, you discover that the deal is for a spectacular $50 million yacht, the Galactica Star, that Jay-Z and Beyoncé once borrowed for a vacation.', 'Appleby had 31,000 American clients, the most common nationality by far. The firm’s files include a who’s who of the nation’s wealthiest citizens: prominent Democrats like George Soros, the financier and philanthropist, and Penny Pritzker, commerce secretary in the Obama administration; and high-profile Republican supporters of President Trump, including Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate, and Carl Icahn, the private equity investor.', 'Queen Elizabeth II, according to Appleby documents, used a Cayman Islands fund to invest in a company that owned a share of a British rent-to-own company widely criticized for financing the sale of household items at interest rates as high as 99.9 percent. The leaked files reveal Madonna’s shares in a medical supplies firm, Bono’s investment in a Lithuanian shopping center and the Microsoft co-founder Paul G. Allen’s yacht and submarines.', 'Around the globe, the documents disclose the holdings of rulers and politicians. The list includes three former prime ministers of Canada, the queen dowager of Jordan and at least five members of the Qatari ruling family.', 'Another offshore firm, the family-owned Asiaciti of Singapore, whose files were obtained by Süddeutsche Zeitung, advertises that it helps clients “preserve wealth from the ravages of litigation,” political tumult and divorce. Its American customers include physicians, professional poker players and a Colorado alfalfa farmer. Asiaciti set up trusts in the Cook Islands for Kevin Trudeau, an infomercial pitchman in the United States with a trail of legal troubles who sold millions of copies of such self-help books as “The Weight-Loss Cure ‘They’ Don’t Want You to Know About.”', 'Founded in 1898 by a British officer, Maj. Reginald Appleby — an avowed opponent of taxation — Appleby now has offices in nearly all the world’s tax havens: Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, the Cayman Islands, Guernsey, Hong Kong, the Isle of Man, Jersey, Mauritius, the Seychelles and Shanghai.', 'Such locations offer low or zero tax rates, companies consisting only of a postbox, and accountants and lawyers skilled at hiding money.', 'In a statement, Appleby said the firm had done nothing wrong. “We are an offshore law firm who advises clients on legitimate and lawful ways to conduct their business,” the statement said. “We do not tolerate illegal behaviour.”', 'In recent years, billionaires’ fortunes have grown by an average of 7 to 8 percent a year, while total wealth has grown at just 3 percent annually, said Gabriel Zucman, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. Globalization, deregulation and declining taxes have all been factors.', '“The other important thing is the rise of the global, cross-border wealth management industry,” including Appleby, Mr. Zucman said.', 'The richest 1 percent of the world’s population now owns more than half of global wealth, and the top 10 percent owns about 90 percent.', '“The data suggests that most of the gains at the top are coming at the expense of the rest of the population,” Mr. Zucman said. That conclusion is shared by many other scholars.', 'The wealthy use the power that accompanies their money, he said, to exert political influence, reduce taxes and regulation — and hire experts to keep their money safe.', 'Mr. Simons, the hedge fund billionaire, was a young math professor in 1974 when a Colombian friend established a trust in Bermuda on his behalf using a gift of $100,000 to him, his parents and his descendants. American tax authorities would consider the Lord Jim Trust, as it was named, a foreign entity, limiting the visibility of the Internal Revenue Service into its holdings and its ability to tax its funds until it made distributions to the Simons family. (Appleby did not create the trust but later provided legal advice.)', 'In 1982, Mr. Simons founded Renaissance Technologies, a New York-based hedge fund whose secret trading algorithms soon generated rates of return that became storied on Wall Street. Over the next three decades, Renaissance became one of the most lucrative hedge funds on the planet, making Mr. Simons a billionaire many times over.', 'Mr. Simons, in response to questions, said that when he and his family received distributions from the Bermuda trust, they were reported to the I.R.S. But Mr. Simons said he and his relatives took out only limited amounts, mainly in the early years of the trust, whose main investments were Renaissance funds that enjoyed spectacular returns.', 'As Renaissance’s investments grew, so did its footprint in American life. Mr. Simons became one of the country’s top political donors. During the last election cycle, he was the sixth-largest contributor to political candidates and causes, giving more than $26 million, nearly all to Democrats, including $11 million to Priorities USA Action, a political action committee supporting Hillary Clinton.', 'Mr. Simons’s business partner and Renaissance’s departing co-chief executive, Robert Mercer, rose to the highest ranks of Republican donors and became an influential backer of Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, contributing more than $3 million. A major funder of Breitbart News, Mr. Mercer influenced critical decisions of Mr. Trump’s candidacy, such as the hiring of Stephen K. Bannon, then Breitbart’s executive chairman, as the campaign’s chief executive. Mr. Mercer has also been an Appleby client.', 'In 2014, a Senate committee accused Renaissance and another hedge fund of using a complex accounting maneuver to improperly avoid taxes. Renaissance is still fighting the resulting tax bill, estimated at $6.8 billion.', 'As the tax dispute has proceeded, Mr. Simons is now estimated to be the 25th-richest person in the United States, with a net worth estimated at $18.5 billion, according to the Forbes list of richest Americans. But such rankings, important yardsticks in the study of global development and inequality, often rely on incomplete public data.', 'Mr. Simons’s Lord Jim Trust offers one example. Though the trust has been listed in various filings, a 2010 document in Appleby’s files provides details for the first time. If it had been fully accounted for in calculating his net worth, he would have vaulted even higher in the ranks of the superrich.', 'Yet factoring the trust into his wealth isn’t so straightforward, because Mr. Simons says his share is now in an offshore charity, Simons Foundation International. In 2010, he and his wife, Marilyn, signed the “giving pledge” established by Bill Gates and Warren Buffett, vowing to give “the great majority” of their wealth to philanthropic purposes.', 'A person familiar with Simons Foundation International, who was not authorized to speak on the record about it, said it had $8 billion in assets. That is more than double the approximately $3 billion in Mr. Simons’s New York-based Simons Foundation, whose mission of funding scientific research and education is shared by the Bermuda foundation.', '“So far it has not been very active,” Mr. Simons wrote in a response to questions from The Times. “In future years, as my income decreases and ultimately ceases, SFI will play an increasingly larger role in funding.”', 'But the Simons Foundation International operates in obscurity. Though it would easily rank in the top 10 foundations in the United States, it has no website.', 'Mr. Simons said that keeping the foundation in Bermuda made it easier to give to charities that weren’t American and also avoided the minimal annual giving requirements that foundations must follow in the United States.', 'Ray D. Madoff, a professor of law at Boston College who focuses on philanthropies and taxes, said that in terms of oversight and transparency, “the first sin was whatever it was that allowed however many billions of dollars of a U.S. citizen to be growing tax free in Bermuda.”', 'But Michael G. Pfeifer, a Washington lawyer who specializes in estate planning for wealthy people and helped write the tax rules governing overseas trusts, said that Mr. Simons merely followed the rules.', '“I would have told the guy, ‘You’ve got this money offshore — just leave it offshore,’” Mr. Pfeifer said. “And he did.”', 'If Mr. Simons’s motive for setting up offshore entities is complex, Mr. Stephens’s seems more obvious.', 'In late 2011, representatives of Mr. Stephens and his business partner, James R. Carnes, asked Appleby to incorporate two offshore companies as part of a plan to help Native American tribes set up lending operations, a common business tactic because such ventures can claim tribal immunity against outside legal challenges.', 'The new venture’s parent company, Hayfield Investment Partners, was incorporated in Delaware — considered a tax haven like a half-dozen other American states, underscoring that secrecy and tax advantages are not limited to palm-dotted tropical islands. Hayfield already had a separate subsidiary called Integrity Advance, an online payday loan company whose lending practices were coming into the cross hairs of regulators across the United States.', 'Documents in Appleby’s files show that Mr. Stephens and his funds owned 40 percent of Hayfield, which received additional investments from executives of Stephens Inc., the family investment bank, and acquaintances like the golf star Phil Mickelson, who contributed $12,000.', 'It did not take long for Integrity Advance to generate complaints from borrowers and regulators. People short of cash who took out small loans would later see large withdrawals from their bank accounts for interest and services fees that often far exceeded the amount they originally borrowed.', 'By November 2012, Integrity Advance had received cease-and-desist letters from state regulators in Connecticut, Kentucky, Illinois, Mississippi and South Carolina. In May 2013, a Minnesota district court ordered the company to pay nearly $8 million in civil penalties and victim restitution, saying that the firm had targeted financially vulnerable citizens with interest rates as high as 1,369 percent.', 'One borrower, Nils Paul Warren, a broadcast audio technician for Nascar in Orlando, complained to Florida regulators that he’d had to shell out more than $1,300 to repay a short-term $500 online loan he got from Integrity Advance in 2009 — a sum far greater than what he had expected.', '“I think the bulk of their clientele are people who are a paycheck away from being homeless,” Mr. Warren said in an interview.', 'As complaints mounted, Mr. Stephens and Mr. Carnes sold part of Integrity Advance to a pawnshop-style loan company, Ezcorp. Eventually the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau accused Integrity Advance of “false and deceptive” tactics, and last year, an administrative law judge recommended to the head of the bureau that the company and Mr. Carnes, its chief executive, pay more than $51 million in fines and restitution to borrowers. Integrity Advance and Mr. Carnes are appealing the ruling.', 'In its legal action against Integrity Advance, the bureau emphasized Mr. Carnes’s 52 percent ownership of Hayfield, the parent company. Neither regulators nor the news media has ever mentioned Mr. Stephens’s sizable stake. (Mr. Stephens declined to comment.)', 'If he kept quiet about his role in the embattled payday loan business, he showed no similar reticence in attacking the consumer bureau. In June 2013, he told The Wall Street Journal that the bureau bore some blame for lagging business growth. “The stories we hear about that are pretty scary,” the billionaire said.', 'During last year’s campaign, Mr. Stephens contributed $3 million to Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee that has pushed Congress to strip the bureau’s enforcement powers.', 'Along with helping bankroll such Washington battles, Mr. Stephens has recently used his investment bank, Stephens Inc., to start an online video series called “This Is Capitalism” to improve millennials’ opinion of free-market economics.', 'In his  introduction, Mr. Stephens wrote that he hoped the series would counter the notion that the free market is “a system that enriches a few at the expense of the many.”']