Venus Williams moved a step closer to her first Key Biscayne title since 2001 when she beat top-ranked Angelique Kerber, 7-5, 6-3, on Wednesday night in the quarterfinals of the Miami Open.

Williams, seeded 11th, advanced to the tournament’s semifinals for the first time in seven years. Her opponent Thursday night will be 10th-seeded Johanna Konta, who beat third-seeded Simona Halep, 3-6, 7-6 (7), 6-2. Second-seeded Karolina Pliskova will play 12th-seeded Caroline Wozniacki in the other semifinal.

Williams took charge of her match when Kerber double-faulted on the final two points of the opening set. Williams broke serve twice early in the second set and closed out the victory on her fifth match point with a backhand winner.

On the men’s side, Fabio Fognini became the first unseeded player in 10 years to reach the men’s semifinals at Key Biscayne when he beat last year’s runner-up, Kei Nishikori, 6-4, 6-2. The four-time Key Biscayne runner-up Rafael Nadal also advanced to the men’s semifinals by beating Jack Sock, 6-2, 6-3.

Golden State Warriors forward Kevin Durant has been cleared for noncontact basketball drills and could return from his knee injury before the end of the regular season.

The Warriors said Durant would be re-evaluated in the next seven to 10 days as he recovers from an injury to his left knee and leg that has sidelined him since Feb. 28. The regular season ends in two weeks.

The team said Durant had made good progress in his recovery and had had no setbacks. He has started shooting, running and jumping drills and will soon start doing more explosive cutting and lateral maneuvers.

WESTBROOK SCORES 57 POINTS Russell Westbrook had 57 points, 13 rebounds and 11 assists to lead the Oklahoma City Thunder to a 114-106 overtime win over the Magic in Orlando, Fla.

Westbrook led the Thunder back from a 21-point deficit in the second half as he recorded his 38th triple-double of the season. He hit big shots in the fourth quarter, including a tying 3-pointer with 7.1 seconds left to force the extra period.

BUCKS KNOCK CELTICS FROM TOP Giannis Antetokounmpo had 22 points and 9 rebounds, and the Milwaukee Bucks knocked the Celtics out first place in the Eastern Conference with a 103-100 victory in Boston.

Malcolm Brogdon had 6 key points in the final 2 minutes 46 seconds to help Milwaukee fend off a late Boston charge. The loss put the Celtics back in second in the East, percentage points behind idle Cleveland.

The referee John Higgins, of Omaha, reported that he received death threats after Kentucky’s loss to North Carolina in the N.C.A.A. tournament, a Nebraska law enforcement official said.

Higgins’s roofing company received about 3,000 harassing emails and an unknown number of calls, including some death threats, said Capt. Kevin Griger, investigations commander for the Sarpy County Sheriff’s Department.

North Carolina defeated Kentucky, 75-73, on Sunday to advance to the Final Four, winning on a last-second shot by Luke Maye. Kentucky Coach John Calipari opened his news conference with a comment about foul calls, complaining that the freshman stars Bam Adebayo, De’Aaron Fox and Malik Monk had each picked up two fouls in the first half.

PROGRAM FULL OF OLYMPIANS IS CUT University of North Dakota athletic department officials said budget cuts ordered by the university president had forced them to eliminate three sports, including a women’s hockey program loaded with Olympians.

The women’s hockey program, which began in 2002, reached the N.C.A.A. quarterfinals for two straight years when Monique and Jocelyne Lamoureux, twin sisters and United States Olympians, played for the team. Eight North Dakota players represented three countries in the 2014 Olympics.

The N.H.L. will play its first games in China this fall when the Los Angeles Kings and the Vancouver Canucks meet in Beijing and Shanghai. The preseason games will take place Sept. 21 in Shanghai and Sept. 23 in Beijing. Commissioner Gary Bettman announced the start of the N.H.L. China Games at a news conference Thursday morning in Beijing.

In Helsinki, Finland, Evgenia Medvedeva closed in on a second world figure skating title by taking the lead in the short program, while Sui Wenjing and Han Cong of China led in pairs.

Medvedeva, a 17-year-old Russian, skated flawlessly and earned 79.01 points, a result second only to the world-record score she posted at December’s Grand Prix finals.

Medvedeva, who is unbeaten since November 2015, can become the first woman to win back-to-back world titles since 2001 if she holds on to her lead in Friday’s free skate.

Canadians trailed Medvedeva, with Kaetlyn Osmond in second with 75.98 points and Gabrielle Daleman in third with 72.19.

In the pairs short program, Sui and Han skated cleanly to score 81.23 and beat the Germans Aliona Savchenko and Bruno Massot, who were second at 79.84.

Mike Petke will get another chance to lead an M.L.S. franchise, with Real Salt Lake introducing him as its new coach. A former Red Bulls coach, he replaces Jeff Cassar, who was fired three games into the season.

Petke spent two seasons with the Red Bulls, amassing a 30-19-19 record. In Utah, he is tasked with turning around a club mired in an 11-game winless streak in regular-season M.L.S. play.

NEW DEAL FOR WRIGHT-PHILLIPS The Red Bulls have signed the two-time M.L.S. Golden Boot winner Bradley Wright-Phillips to a new contract. He is the franchise’s career leader in M.L.S. goals with 70.

The Turkish runners Elvan Abeylegesse and Gamze Bulut were barred for doping and stand to lose their Olympic silver medals.

Abeylegesse tested positive for the banned steroid stanozolol in a retest of a sample she gave at the 2007 world championships. She was barred for two years by the International Association of Athletics Federations and had her results wiped out from 2007 to 2009. Abeylegesse won silver medals in the 5,000 and 10,000 meters at the 2008 Beijing Games and in the 10,000 at the 2007 world championships.

The I.A.A.F. also said it had imposed a four-year ban on Bulut for a violation of its biological passport program. Bulut’s results from July 2011 have been wiped out, which will cost her the silver medal in the 1,500 meters at the 2012 London Olympics.

Hsiu-Chen Kuei waited until her husband and three sons had gone to bed one night recently before surreptitiously beginning work on an ambitious personal project.

As they slept, Kuei, 48, a stay-at-home mother from San Jose, Calif., hunkered down at her computer and began poring over highlight videos featuring Charlotte Hornets guard Jeremy Lin, her favorite N.B.A. player. She fumbled around on Final Cut Pro, a video-editing program, splicing together the specific clips she had sought. She did this for six straight nights, three hours each night.

On April 5, Kuei uploaded her finished product, a six-and-a-half-minute video, to YouTube. She called it “Jeremy Lin: Too Flagrant Not to Call.” Piecing together clips of Lin being whacked in the face, clotheslined, bleeding, tumbling to the floor — all without ever drawing a flagrant foul — Kuei tried to convey that Lin, an American-born son of immigrants from Taiwan, was the victim of excessive physicality from opponents and insufficient protection from the league and its referees.

To Kuei’s surprise, the video soon attracted close to a million views, capturing the attention of basketball fans around the world and the eye of the league. With its bruising simplicity, it revived questions about the fairness and consistency of officiating in the N.B.A. and led to conversations about latent racial biases. With its far-flung reach, it reiterated the power of social media in the contemporary sports landscape.

“I’m just happy that people are noticing this,” Kuei said in a telephone interview on Tuesday. “It’s not about views. I didn’t get money or anything. I didn’t want attention. I just want Lin to get fair calls.”

Kuei’s original clip had been viewed more than 980,000 times and had more than 1,000 comments through Thursday morning. A version of the video with Chinese subtitles had more than 750,000 views on YouTube. Threads on online messages boards, like Reddit, engendered fevered discussion and debate.

The video kept spreading. Media outlets in Taiwan and Hong Kong, where Lin has many fans, ran stories on it this week. Though it seems not yet to have attracted the attention of the news media on the Chinese mainland, fans on social media there have taken notice: A copy of the video has spread on Weibo, a popular microblogging service.

To accompany the video, Kuei recruited two online acquaintances from Lin-centric message boards to help draft a letter to send to the N.B.A. She then encouraged fans — some of whom she understood might not be comfortable writing in English — to copy the letter and send it to the league, too.

“Throughout Lin’s six years in the N.B.A., we have continuously witnessed Lin as the recipient of numerous hard fouls with unnecessary and excessive force by other players,” the letter reads. “In these cases, the referees either didn’t make the calls or made incorrect calls.”

The N.B.A. responded with a statement. It was a notable victory — a grass-roots, fan-led project receiving acknowledgment from a major sports league — but the N.B.A. stood by the handling of all the plays highlighted in the video. Fans who wrote to the league received a letter encouraging them to read the rules that categorized fouls. A similar statement was forwarded to news media outlets seeking comment.

“While some of the plays in the video involved hard contact, none was subsequently deemed a Flagrant Foul given the full circumstances, angles and comparables from past games,” the statement reads.

Kuei and her partners found the league’s response disappointing and unsatisfactory. “They are telling us to look at the rules, but it doesn’t seem like they are looking at the rules,” said Jenny Wei, who was born in Taiwan and now is a stay-at-home mother in Los Angeles. She composed the first draft of the letter. “I feel like they think we’re not smart or we don’t know basketball. We know basketball.”

The video eventually made its way to Lin, who expressed his appreciation for the group’s efforts after the Hornets’ game on Sunday night. In an interview with Dennis Tsai, a reporter for Apple Daily of Taiwan, Lin said he agreed with the premise of the video, even as he acknowledged that there was little about the situation that he could control.

“I’m just psyched that the fans are trying to do something about it and trying to push the league to at least review some of the stuff,” Lin said.

The three fans involved in the project — Kuei, Wei and Koon-Ping Chan, a fan from Bayside, Queens, who was born in Hong Kong and helped edit Wei’s draft — have never met in person, but they interact almost daily in online chat groups. They all began following Lin after his breakout season with the Knicks in 2012 and now belong to the fervent community of Lin supporters that spreads over multiple continents.

They did not attempt to establish a case through statistics because data cannot capture what was at the heart of their complaint. It was the brutality of the individual fouls, not the overall tally, that angered them. “Did you see those fouls, how his neck snapped back?” Wei said.

Critics of the video have suggested that similar ones could be made about other players. Kuei, who was born in Taiwan, does not disagree but does not feel that it contradicts her view that Lin gets shortchanged. She said fans of other players should make their own videos.

“Through this, I just want to make sure the rules apply to every player and players get protected by the rules,” Kuei said.

Though Kuei’s video does not attempt to speculate on the root cause of Lin’s perceived treatment, much of the ensuing discussion has gravitated toward Lin’s race.

When Yu Guohua, a first cousin of Lin’s mother and a retired plastic factory worker who lives near Hangzhou on mainland China, learned of the video, he said, “Of course he’s being badly mistreated.”

State-controlled media in mainland China occasionally highlights what it portrays as unfairness to Asians in the West, and Yu was quick to attribute any unfairness toward Lin to such bias. “That is probably the cause,” Yu said.

Kuei noted that neither the video nor the letter accused anyone of racism. But she and her partners said they understood why people might be drawn to such conclusions.

“I do think, in my mind, clearly at a minimum, we could say he’s being treated differently,” said Chan, 68, a former banker. “We want people to make up their own minds, to try to interpret it.”

Wei agreed. “I experience things as an Asian in America,” she said. “It’s there.”

Though the group has found the league’s response underwhelming, it has been invigorated by the reaction from other fans and the news media. The video inspired a follow-up examination on Wednesday from the ESPN reporter Tom Haberstroh, who noted that the 813 fouls that Lin had drawn over the past three seasons represented the highest total for a guard — and the third highest number for any position — without a flagrant foul, a particularly hard foul that can lead to an ejection.

“That proved it,” Wei said of the report, laughing. “We’re not crazy.”

Kuei said she had more hard fouls in mind to use for a video sequel, if she determines it is necessary. For now, she will watch the playoffs carefully to see if Lin gets any calls from the referees. And just as important, she will divert some of her attention back to other issues she left unattended while defending her favorite player.

“I haven’t filed my tax returns yet,” Kuei said with a sigh. “I spent too much time on the video.”

Ryan Palmer shot a five-under-par 65 on Friday and shared the lead at the Honda Classic with the PGA Tour rookie Wesley Bryan going into the weekend in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla.

Palmer made seven birdies and reached nine-under 131.

Bryan shot a 67 and saved his round by playing a shot from the trees with his putter on the 13th hole, salvaging a bogey.

Palmer and Bryan were a shot ahead of their fellow American Rickie Fowler, along with Anirban Lahiri of India.

Palmer took four months off at the end of last year when his wife was found to have breast cancer. He said the recovery is going well.

ENGLISHMAN LEADS IN SOUTH AFRICA Paul Waring of England led by one shot after 12 holes of his second round when play was suspended because of bad light at the Joburg Open in Johannesburg. Waring made five birdies on those holes on the West Course at Royal Johannesburg and Kensington to move to 12 under, ahead of the South Africans Darren Fichardt and Dean Burmester.

RAINS DERAIL L.P.G.A. THAILAND Heavy rains washed out most of the play at the L.P.G.A. Thailand in Chonburi. Play was called for the day at 3:45 p.m., and 13 players did not start the second round, including the leaders Ariya Jutanugarn of Thailand and Amy Yang of South Korea.

Jack Sock moved into the semifinals at Florida’s Delray Beach Open by beating Steve Johnson, 6-4, 7-6 (4), in an all-American match.

On Saturday, for a berth in the final, Sock will play another American: Donald Young, whose quarterfinal opponent, Steve Darcis, withdrew from the tournament, citing personal reasons.

KYRGIOS ADVANCES The defending champion Nick Kyrgios of Australia made quick work of the Slovak qualifier Norbert Gombos to reach the Open 13 semifinals in Marseille, France, winning, 6-3, 6-3, in less than an hour.

Kyrgios, seeded third, hit 15 aces and lost just six points on his serve to set up his first career meeting against second-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France.

Cleveland outfielder Michael Brantley took regular batting practice for the first time in training camp this year, a significant step in his latest comeback from a shoulder injury.

Brantley took 120 swings in an outdoor batting cage as several Indians coaches and the team’s medical director watched. Brantley had been limited to soft-toss workouts, but he was able to take full cuts against normal pitches.

Brantley, 29, played in just 11 games last season as he was unable to make a full recovery after off-season surgery on his right shoulder.

Cleveland Cavaliers forward Kevin Love said he expected to be ready for the N.B.A. playoffs in April after having what he called “very minor” knee surgery.

Doctors removed what were termed loose bodies from his left knee Feb. 14 and told Love, an All-Star, he would need six weeks to recover. Love said that he expected to have the stitches removed this weekend and added that he was on schedule to return in late March.

The injury kept Love out of last weekend’s All-Star Game.

SIXER WON’T PLAY THIS SEASON Ben Simmons will not make his N.B.A. debut this season. His surgically repaired right foot has not healed sufficiently for Simmons, the No. 1 overall pick, to play in the final 26 games. Simmons fractured the fifth metatarsal bone during the final training camp scrimmage in October and has not played a game.

St. Louis agreed to terms on a five-year $19.25 million contract extension with center Patrik Berglund.

Berglund will count for $3.85 million against the salary cap through the 2021-22 season.

Berglund, 28, a Swede, has played his entire N.H.L. career in St. Louis, scoring 145 goals and recording 141 assists in 615 regular-season games since 2008.

Carina Vogt of Germany retained her world women’s ski-jump title in Lahti, Finland, as her main rival, Maren Lundby of Norway, fell short on her final jump, 91 meters, and finished in fourth place.

Vogt had gone two years without a win.

Her winning score from two jumps was 254.6, 2 points ahead of Yuki Ito of Japan. Sara Takanashi of Japan finished third at 251.1.

In men’s competition, Johannes Rydzek retained his Nordic combined world title as he led a German podium sweep in the men’s individual normal hill event. Eric Frenzel was second, and Björn Kircheisen took third.

SLOVENE WINS DOWNHILL TITLE Bostjan Kline of Slovenia earned his first career World Cup victory in a downhill in Kvitfjell, Norway, and Kjetil Jansrud of Norway finished third to move into the lead in the discipline standings. Kline, who started fourth, finished 0.19 of a second ahead of Matthias Mayer of Austria, with Jansrud 0.01 of a second further back.

NEWARK —  The circulation desk was still closed early on a recent Monday morning in the Peter W. Rodino Jr. Library, on the fourth level of the Seton Hall School of Law, where Braeden Anderson settled by a desk in the corner. He flipped an accordion-size textbook to Page 563.

Just outside, pale sunlight cast the hallways in a periwinkle glaze, nearly matching the color on the coffee mug resting before him, with Seton Hall’s logo, a patch-eyed pirate, splashed across it. The watch on Anderson’s left wrist read 7:35 a.m. Like most of the other first-year law students, he had almost every minute of the unfolding day mapped out. Except that his schedule included basketball practice that afternoon.

His days, then, seem to carry out like a stream of buzzer beaters. He has learned to thrive on less sleep — five, maybe six hours — than is recommended for a Division I athlete, and tailored his diet to handle the toll that the academic-athletic duality of his life can take. But Anderson is not one to complain. In fact, as he skimmed line by line through a textbook on torts, he insisted there were aspects of his studies that amused him.

Take this case, for example, he said, pointing over at Page 557. Bencivenga v. J.J.A.M.M. Inc. (1992). Guy at a nightclub gets beaten up by some other guys.

“Torts is actually funny sometimes,” Anderson said.

He chuckled at the details before arriving at the crux of the article, the actionable dispute that landed the case onto his pages of study.

“Can you apportion a percentage of liability to an unnamed party?” Anderson asked.

“See, the facts are pretty straightforward,” he added. “But the legal analysis is actually pretty tricky.”

At 6 feet 9 inches, with thick tattooed arms, Anderson, 23, would make an imposing courtroom presence. On the court for the Pirates (7-2), he plays sparingly but aggressively, pursuing rebounds with abandon and setting an active tone on defense. A graduate transfer from Fresno State, Anderson is a selfless role player, comfortable setting screens, running the floor and moving the ball.

He said his goals had changed over the years.

Growing up, Anderson wanted to play in the N.B.A., and when he was a top prep school prospect, it appeared as if he might be on that track. A serious car accident in 2013 affected that trajectory, though. His focus shifted more toward academics. He still wanted to earn money for his family, but now it is as a corporate lawyer. He also still wanted to play basketball. Who said he could not do both?

Anderson scored 161 in one attempt on his Law School Admission Test, landing him in the 82nd percentile. He seriously weighed an offer from Penn State’s law school, but with no basketball option. Finally, Seton Hall gave him the chance to test his skills in both arenas.

Class began at 10:30, and Anderson scrunched his tall frame into a swivel seat in the fifth row of a 90-seat lecture hall for his final class before the exam. He estimated that he had missed five classes in the first semester traveling with the team. But when the Pirates left on a Thursday to travel to Penn State for a Friday night exhibition earlier in the fall, Anderson remained behind, attended Friday class and drove to State College, Pa., with an assistant to make it before tipoff.

“Braeden,” his professor, Brian Sheppard, called midway through class. “What was the lower court’s decision?”

“They found in favor of the plaintiff,” Anderson said, drawing a quick nod in response. Yes, indeed, he had studied Bencivenga.

After class, Anderson made plans with fellow students to meet back in the library for a group study session, 12 hours after he had arrived. But first, he had to drive to South Orange, N.J., Seton Hall’s main campus, where a strength coach was waiting for him to work out, a trainer was waiting to tape him and his teammates were waiting for him to practice before a big game in Washington.

This normally left him with just enough time to grab lunch, and so he put on a thin jacket and walked briskly out into a bright and blustery afternoon. There was a cafe nearby. A good panini spot. He took a bite and chewed on the question of why he was doing all this.

“I realized that people are governed by this narrow-minded vision of what they think people can do,” he said. “I’ve learned to shatter those boundaries.”

 ‘What Do I Have?’

The night of Sept. 3, 2013, Anderson lost a game of rock-paper-scissors with a friend and had to ride cramped in the back seat of Fresno State teammate’s pickup. He nearly lost his life.

Anderson’s head rested against the truck’s ceiling, and when the driver swerved to avoid a roadside collision, crashing into another car in the process, the force ejected Anderson upward. He broke his neck in two places.

As he lay waiting for paramedics, Anderson could move his fingers and toes. But X-rays later revealed that he his fractures had come within fractions of an inch of impinging on his spinal cord, which very likely would have paralyzed him.

He recalled this while driving east along Route 510 toward South Orange. Bryson Tiller’s “Sorry Not Sorry” played softly through the car’s speakers. A pinkish three-inch scar below his Adam’s apple stands out against his skin. It is one of two he has visible from operations after the accident; a longer one runs along his upper spine, like a zipper.

Anderson was raised in Okotoks, Alberta, a suburb of Calgary. His mother, Lori, is Irish, and his biological father, with whom Anderson has had only a sporadic relationship, is a former player on Nigeria’s national basketball team. Anderson loved football growing up, but his Amateur Athletic Union coach, John Hegwood, persuaded him to focus on basketball when he was 14.

At the time, Anderson was living in and out of the house with his mother and stepfather, who he said was verbally and physically abusive. “I lived with friends and relatives,” Anderson said. “There were times I wasn’t safe to be there.”

Anderson, who was found to have attention deficit disorder, also acknowledges that he could sometimes be a handful. Lori Anderson, who has since divorced, confirmed her son’s account of living in an unstable household. Attempts to reach Anderson’s stepfather for this article were unsuccessful.

The trouble at home fueled Anderson to seek ways to flee.

“What do I have?” he recalled asking himself. “What do I have at my disposal? What do I have that can get me out of this situation? And all I had was basketball.”

But Calgary was not a basketball hotbed. This was several years before Andrew Wiggins and Anthony Bennett made Canada a destination for college recruiters.

Hegwood encouraged his young star, who had grown to 6-8 by his junior year, to look for prep school options in the United States.

Anderson thought he found the perfect opportunity in North Carolina, at a place called Christian Faith Center Academy, steered there by a coach, Ro Russell.

Anderson described the living conditions as wretched, but college coaches flocked to games. He soon received offers from Arizona, Memphis, Florida and Kentucky, among dozens of other programs.

Anderson ultimately chose to play for Kansas. But in mid-September of his freshman year, in 2011, Anderson met with Kansas Coach Bill Self in his office. Self told him that he had been ruled academically ineligible to play, stemming from an investigation into his time at Christian Faith. A subsequent investigation by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation program “The Fifth Estate” alleged that Russell had misled Anderson and 10 other players by creating a nearby school that had a similar-sounding name but was not C.F.C.A. The N.C.A.A. deemed Russell’s school to be bogus.

Now Anderson was out of a scholarship. Kansas wanted him to attend junior college and return in two years, but Anderson had bigger academic aspirations. So he made his way to Fresno.

‘The Worst Nightmare’

Anderson never thought he would die after the accident. But there were points during his recovery when he said he wanted to. The pain was sometimes unbearable, and he received so many injections that the veins in his forearms calcified into brittle twigs. It took time to regain feeling in his left hand. He spent 28 days in Stanford Hospital and underwent four major operations.

“I really went through hell,” Anderson said. “It was the worst nightmare. It was something I didn’t think I could physically get through.”

When he was released from the hospital, Anderson was not initially concerned about playing basketball. His fear related to academics — he had missed a month of classes.

His mother assured him that it would be O.K. if he returned to Okotoks, but Anderson declined. So she propped his laptop on top of several books, bringing it to eye level, because Anderson could not bend his neck. Then he began emailing professors.

“You just can’t knock him down,” Lori Anderson said.

Anderson went to Fresno to pick up the pieces on his basketball career. At Kansas, he was projected to be the next in the succession of big men to reach the N.B.A., following Cole Aldrich, the twins Marcus and Markieff Morris, and Thomas Robinson, each a first-round pick. But the accident — and its nine-month rehabilitation — effectively obliterated his professional aspirations. Anderson missed the entire 2013-14 season but traveled with the team. He said he used a lot of that time to study for the LSAT, which he took in June 2014.

Since 2006 — the year the N.C.A.A. adopted its graduate transfer rule, allowing a player with remaining eligibility to transfer immediately if he seeks a graduate degree in a major not offered by his current school — it has been rare for a Division I athlete to attempt law school while competing. Notre Dame’s Chris Stewart, an offensive lineman, took first-year law courses in 2010. More recently, so did two women’s basketball players: Baylor’s Sune Agbuke and Iowa’s Kathryn Reynolds.

Jay Bilas, the ESPN analyst who attended Duke Law School while he was a graduate assistant, said he had never heard of an active men’s basketball player doing both. “Really impressive,” he wrote in an email.

Anderson graduated from Fresno State in three years. Though he is four years out of high school, Anderson had used only two years of eligibility before this season. According to a Seton Hall spokesman, Anderson has applied to the N.C.A.A. for a waiver to play again next season and retain the scholarship that covers the $50,000 tuition for law school.

“For a while, I had a Plan A and a Plan B: Plan A was N.B.A.; Plan B was law school,” Anderson said. “Somewhere along the lines there I said, Hey, I don’t need to have two plans. They’re both the same plan. It’s to be successful, to make the most out of every situation, to achieve, to do it all.”

Anderson lives on his own in East Newark, N.J., and said his teammates often did not know what to make of him — a basketball player who happily trades video games for textbooks. The same could be said for his law school classmates.

“It’s unbelievable,” said Shivang Gandhi, 27, of Edison, N.J., who sits near Anderson in class. “It takes tremendous discipline. I don’t know how he does it.”

At 2:15 p.m., Anderson was running into the athletic center to change before practice. He hustled into the weight room for a 20-minute speed workout. By 2:35, he was plopped on a training table as Tony Testa, Seton Hall’s director of sports medicine, taped his ankles and wrist.

“Did the professor call on you in class?” Testa asked.

Anderson smiled, and then he was off, running again, toward the film room for a review of the coming game with George Washington. Then practice, and the typical torrent of invectives from Seton Hall’s volcanic coach, Kevin Willard.

Then back to quiet study in the library.

The breakneck transitions from one demanding activity to the next did not give Anderson a moment’s pause.

“I am doing a million things at once, all the time,” he said. “I’m thinking about basketball at times in class, and I’m thinking about class sometimes when I’m playing basketball.

“But it’s all kind of grouped into one thing for me. It’s almost impossible to separate the two.”

The professional sports locker room is a sanctuary, a place that is supposed to be free of outside distractions. At halftime of an N.B.A. game, for instance, players sit attentively, absorbing the coach’s instructions. They rehydrate, and maybe even change into a fresh uniform. Their focus for those 15 minutes rests entirely on what must be done in the second half to win the game.

Except when they’re flicking through their smartphone notifications on the sly.

The habit of monitoring mobile devices officially now has no bounds, not even at the locker room door. In a league populated by athletes who have grown up with a ball in one hand and a mobile device in the other, players are increasingly returning to the court only after taking a few quick swipes through some messages.

“I don’t think you should necessarily be coming in at halftime and start going through your mentions, but it’s just become habitual,” said Spencer Hawes of the Charlotte Hornets, who are playing the Miami Heat in the first round of the N.B.A. postseason. “What do you do when you’ve been away from your phone in any situation? You come in, check it, check if anyone texted you. I think halftime is kind of no different.”

The ritual has challenged the popularly held perception of the professional sports locker room as a scene of intense focus on the task ahead. It may not affect performance on the court, but it nonetheless signals a significant cultural shift for the veteran players who remember older times and a place, the locker room, that was free of digital distractions.

Hawes said Reggie Theus, his coach during his rookie season eight years ago with the Sacramento Kings, banned phones from the locker room altogether and even outlawed them on the team bus. Al Jefferson, Hawes’s teammate on the Hornets, recalled being cursed out by Doc Rivers 11 years ago in his own rookie season with the Boston Celtics for daring to check his messages before tipoff.

“I’m still not a big fan of people checking their phones at halftime,” Jefferson said as he sat with his feet in a bucket of ice, fiddling with his phone, after a recent game. “But times change. Cellphones are people’s life now.”

A Gallup poll last year found that 73 percent of Americans ages 18 to 29 checked their devices a few times an hour — including 22 percent every few minutes. Fifty-nine percent of respondents ages 30 to 49 said they looked at their phones a few times an hour.

The Knicks’ Kevin Seraphin, 26, said friends asked him to turn off his phone at restaurants because he could not control himself otherwise. He maintains active accounts on Instagram, Snapchat, Twitter and Periscope and likes interacting online with fans. He said he was even developing his own social media app.

“I’m not perfect,” Seraphin said. “I love social networks.”

Like anyone else, though, the players are hardly immune from phone-related social media embarrassments, it’s just that theirs get more attention.

The Los Angeles Lakers rookie D’Angelo Russell last month apologized after a cellphone video he took of a teammate, Nick Young, who appeared to be discussing an affair, ended up on social media. (Two years ago, Young, in street clothes sitting out a game, was caught on camera checking his phone on the bench.)

Hawes said that for his pregame nap — a customary routine in the league — he has needed to put his phone farther and farther from his bed. “So if I get the itch, I can’t just roll over and throw away an hour scrolling and going down that rabbit hole,” he said.

Players these days are practically tied to their devices before the game, listening to music, arranging tickets for friends and family, watching game video.

The minutes after the final buzzer, when the players return to the locker room, can resemble the moment when a plane lands or a subway car emerges above ground: a mob of silent people, heads hovering over glowing screens, reading texts, emails and social media notifications.

“You see everyone looking like zombies getting to their phones, trying to see what’s going on and if they missed anything,” Caron Butler of the Sacramento Kings said of the postgame scene.

Halftime phone use tends to be more discreet. For some players, there’s still guilt attached to it. Frank Kaminsky, a Hornets rookie, said his college coach at Wisconsin, Bo Ryan, had made players turn off their phones at the arena. Kaminsky said he still does not look at his phone for the duration of a game.

“It still feels like I’m doing something wrong if I do,” he said.

Richard Jefferson, 35, of the Cleveland Cavaliers — who joked about being old enough to remember when not every player had a phone — said halftime phone use should be limited to quickly checking on family members.

Some policing still occurs today, but it tends to be less formal. It also tends not to work.

The former Denver coach Brian Shaw, who has admitted to having difficulty relating to millennials, for a time confiscated his players’ phones and put them in a box before games during the Nuggets’ dismal 2014-15 season, complaining that the players lacked focus.

Phil Jackson, the Knicks’ president, told players this season that he preferred they not take their phones out at halftime, Seraphin said. “Phil’s really old school,” Seraphin said. “He doesn’t want players to touch their phones. I mean, you can take your own risk, but he doesn’t really like it.”

Jose Calderon of the Knicks practically winced when asked if he took out his phone at halftime: “Oh, no, not halftime,” he said. “Well, I don’t. You’re thinking about the game.”

Still, several Knicks admitted to peeking at their phones and acknowledged seeing their teammates do the same.

Aaron Brooks of the Chicago Bulls recalled how Dikembe Mutombo used to yell at teammates to put away their phones when the two played together years ago on the Houston Rockets. Brooks said some Bulls players tried to institute a policy limiting phone use inside the locker room this season.

“But that didn’t really last too long,” he said, laughing.

Major League Baseball and the N.F.L. prohibit players from using any portable electronic devices during games. The N.B.A. allows players to use mobile devices but prohibits them from posting to social media during games.

At least one N.B.A. player has actively tried to fight the trend. Lou Amundson of the Knicks said he was limiting his phone use these days, owing to his metaphysical perspective on the growing prominence of electronic devices in modern life. At a recent game, he was dismayed to see the ball boys looking at their phones between rebounds and passes.

“You’re on the court at the Garden!” he said, recalling the scene. “Be in the moment, man.”

Amundson, who studied philosophy at Nevada-Las Vegas, said society’s collective phone addiction hindered “pure interaction” and “intention-filled relationships.” He thought texting and social media divided a person’s energy in negative ways. He rued how the dopamine-loop associated with devices obliterated a person’s attention span.

“It takes us as a society someplace I don’t think we need to be going,” Amundson said. “I really feel strongly that there’s going to be some kind of countercultural revolution where people start to reject this idea that you need to be connected and you need to have access to everything and you need a phone in front of your face the whole day.”

Any revolution, though, seems unlikely to originate in N.B.A. locker rooms.