“Thursday Night Football” has a new home: Fox.

The league announced on Wednesday that it had reached a five-year agreement with Fox to broadcast 11 games a season on Thursdays. As in years past, the NFL Network will simulcast those games and also exclusively broadcast an additional seven games in that time slot. A digital partner for the games — it was Amazon last season — has yet to be announced.

“You either have the rights to the most-watched content, or you don’t,” Peter Rice, president of 21st Century Fox, said on a conference call announcing the agreement. “We believe in buying the very best rights, and the best rights are N.F.L.”

Thursday night games have been something of a neglected afterthought for the league. CBS has broadcast “Thursday Night Football” for the past four seasons, splitting the last two with NBC. Those two networks paid a combined $450 million annually for five games each, with NBC paying additionally for a sixth game. Fox is paying more than $660 million annually for the new package, according to ESPN. News of the deal was first reported by Sports Business Journal.

According to multiple reports, both CBS and NBC bid less than they had paid previously, underscoring the difficulty in finding profit by showing football on Thursday nights.

“Thursday Night Football” was introduced in 2006. Its ratings slid 12 percent last season. Players have complained vociferously about playing two games in five days, and the N.F.L.’s own data shows a higher rate of injuries on Thursday night compared with games on Sunday and Monday.

“We explored a responsible bid for ‘Thursday Night Football,’ but in the end are very pleased to return to entertainment programming on television’s biggest night,” CBS said in a statement.

“We made a competitive bid based on our two years of carrying ‘T.N.F.,’ ” NBC said.

Fox is in a substantially different position from NBC and CBS, perhaps underscoring why it was willing to bid so much more on the package.

Disney recently agreed to pay $52.4 billion to acquire most of 21st Century Fox’s movie and television assets. The deal still requires government approval, but if it goes through, Fox broadcast networks, Fox News, and Fox Sports 1 will be the backbone of a new company focused heavily on live sports and news.

Fox sees the agreement as a harkening back to 1993, when the network made a stunning bid to win the rights to broadcast N.F.L. games, in what some critics thought was an overpay.

“Twenty-five years ago, we made our first historic deal to broadcast N.F.C. games, and that helped transform our then fledgling network into the powerhouse it is today,” Rice said.

The N.F.L. has used the Thursday night package as a trial balloon, keeping contract lengths short and experimenting with digital partnerships. The five-year agreement with Fox will make it the home for football on Thursday nights for the medium term, and expires after the 2022 season, the same time the N.F.L.’s Sunday and Monday broadcast agreements expire.

IRVING, Tex. — When the N.F.L. owners signed off on Commissioner Roger Goodell’s five-year extension, two important things happened: Goodell made it clear this would be his last deal with the league, and league owners took a moment to figure out exactly what they will get for the hundreds of millions they have committed to him during the next seven years.

In a word, continuity, numerous owners said, and the start of a smooth transition to new leadership, as Goodell begins the process of finding a suitable successor to take over when his deal expires in 2024, if he does not decide to leave sooner.

Goodell, the owners acknowledge, is hardly the perfect leader for North America’s most successful sports league. His tenure, they know, has been filled with missteps and controversies, unforced errors and self-inflicted wounds.

But he has worked for the league for 35 years, and he knows, better than anyone, the owners, their ancestors and their progeny. That is no small thing. He knows which ones he must listen to, and which ones he can pretend to listen to, and how to finesse them. The same goes for the media titans who have helped turn the N.F.L. into a $14 billion-a-year juggernaut. During his tenure as commissioner, which began in 2006, Goodell has helped team values skyrocket, and the owners are betting that will continue under his leadership.

“You can’t be cutting off your nose to spite your face,” one owner said of his colleagues who want to replace Goodell for his missteps, most notably in his handling of player discipline and off-field controversies. “People tend to focus on the things he did wrong. But who’s going to replace him? That’s when things bog down.”

The owners did not want to speak publicly about league business before Wednesday’s owners’ meetings.

Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones tried for months to undermine the new deal, arguing that Goodell should not be rewarded with a new contract while the league was facing big challenges, like the decline in television ratings and player protests during the national anthem. Jones hired the star lawyer David Boies and threatened to sue his fellow owners if they did not halt the contract talks, a move that led to his ouster last month from the compensation committee.

At the one-day owners’ meetings here on Wednesday, Jones and several of his allies continued to quietly complain about the deal, Goodell’s leadership and a league office they believe is filled with too many meddlesome executives.

Speaking after the meeting, Goodell tried to downplay the friction created by his contract extension. He said that the league was stronger because owners were able to disagree, both among themselves and with the commissioner. He added that his relationship with Jones has not been damaged.

“We don’t always agree, I’m not paid to agree and he’s not paid to agree with me,” Goodell said.

Goodell then gave Jones an awkward hug and left the room.

Jones took the podium and said the owners will consider changing the N.F.L.’s constitution to give them more sway over league executives, including the commissioner. He added that the owners would look at trimming the power of the department that investigates off-field behavior by players.

Jones tried to downplay the tension he created when he threatened to sue the owners on the compensation committee, saying that he was only trying to improve the league. But he also took a dig at the size of the commissioner’s new contract.

“I know how much Roger Goodell loves the National Football League, and he should love it even more right now,” he said.

Ultimately, Jones failed to derail Goodell’s new contract because of a basic truth: Whatever their differences, most owners believe Goodell is still the best man to lead the league, and they know there is no credible replacement they could agree on. That’s why, in May, the owners voted unanimously to extend his contract through 2024, and they raised little fuss when the compensation committee offered him a deal worth up to $40 million a year.

Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons and the chairman of the compensation committee, said on Wednesday that most of the other owners were glad the fight with Jones was over.

“The owners were bothered by anything that was a distraction from the league, the league’s business,” Blank said. “There was a strong feeling in the room that we need to bond together, be together.”

Many owners say it would be risky to replace Goodell at a critical juncture for the N.F.L. Roughly half of the league’s revenue comes from broadcast and media deals, yet television ratings are down for the second straight year. In the coming years, networks could balk at paying even more for the rights to show games as the league continues to chip away at the legacy media companies’ traditional lock on N.F.L. content. Digital media companies, such as Amazon, Facebook and Netflix, have shown little appetite for competing for rights that now cost more than $1 billion a year.

Some of the world’s most prosperous companies clamor to become league sponsors, but that enthusiasm has been eroded by a series of public relations disasters, including, most recently, the protests during the national anthem.

Leaguewide attendance has held steady at around 17 million fans a year, but a growing number of fans are turned off by the price of attending games and have decided instead to watch at home, or not at all.

Goodell has also been criticized for his heavy handed discipline of players, which has often been followed by lawsuits and expensive investigations that have shifted the focus away from the action on the field. Now Goodell will grapple with a lawsuit from a former NFL Network employee who has accused former co-workers of sexual harassment and assault.

“We take that very seriously,” Goodell said. “Those are issues that are important to us. We want to make sure all of our employees, whether at the NFL Network or league office, or at clubs, are working in a safe and comfortable environment.”

While some owners have said Goodell was too slow to grasp the magnitude of the player safety issue and domestic violence within the league, they have profited handsomely under Goodell’s leadership. League revenue has tripled under his watch, and every franchise is worth more than $1 billion.

Also, with the league’s labor agreement set to expire in 2020, and its television contracts expiring in 2021 and 2022, Goodell’s institutional knowledge could be difficult to replace. He has been willing to cede much of the power during labor and media negotiations to a handful of key owners, something a hypothetical replacement might not be willing to do.

“In an industry as complicated as ours, with fans, media, owners and players, you have to have someone who understands the league’s business,” another owner said. “You need to understand each owner’s personality, understand the process and understand how to get votes.”

Ultimately, Goodell’s primary job is to increase the value of the league by bringing in more revenue. On that front he gets high marks from most owners. On Monday, the league said that it had extended its mobile streaming agreement with Verizon through 2022, a deal worth at least $2 billion, roughly double the value of the last deal.

Still, several owners said that they have protected themselves in case Goodell falters. They structured his contract so that 90 percent of his compensation is based on financial and nonfinancial goals, and the members of three influential committees made up of about 20 owners will decide whether he meets the targets.

According to several owners, Goodell has already said that he will not seek another contract beyond 2024, when he will be 65. Grooming a successor, or searching for one outside the league’s Park Avenue headquarters, will be one of his chief responsibilities. One owner added that Goodell may leave after a new labor deal is struck or the league’s broadcast contracts are renewed, and not finish his contract.

“I think there is a limit to how many years you should serve in this,” Goodell said. “I’m prepared and ready to go.”

At the very least, the fight over Goodell’s contract and his leadership skills has forced the owners to openly discuss the league’s future, another owner said. With the contract dispute seemingly resolved, the owners are confronting the far more complex and daunting tasks ahead.

On the last day of a year in which football will be remembered as much for sideline posture — and posturing — as for on-the-field play, there were fewer than 20 N.F.L. players kneeling or sitting for the national anthem, according to reports. That was about 1 percent of the league’s players, not counting some locked arms, a few hands on shoulders and at least one fist in the air.

Television barely showed them, and the president made no immediate comments. The national conversation was about playoffs, not protests.

It was an oddly quiet end to an incredibly loud season.

President Trump’s response to the N.F.L. protests was the country’s biggest sports story of the year, according to The Associated Press, although it had little to do with sports. The competition played out on the sidelines, kindled by Colin Kaepernick, a quarterback without a team who spent the season in restrained silence, fully ignited by a president throwing torch bombs on Twitter.

Americans ended up arguing over gestures and posture and the original meaning of the lyrics of “The Star-Spangled Banner.” What began as a debate over the state of the oppression of people of color became knotted into an argument about patriotism and the military. Some cheered the First Amendment and emergency medical workers (because who can argue over that?) but jeered when others exercised those First Amendment rights.

Now much of the heat has dissipated, if only until the next wrinkle in the protest, maybe in the playoffs.

Games are meant to resolve matters, with the finality of a score. That is not the case for the biggest sports story of the year. Good luck figuring out who won and who lost.

How is success measured in protests and counterprotests? Is it mere heightened awareness, or do we need to point to concrete change? Is the goal to create division or cohesion, disruption or appeasement?

(Let’s step back: Do you even remember what the protests are — or were supposed to be — about? Answer: racial inequality and police brutality, according to Kaepernick, who sat, and later knelt, for pregame national anthems in 2016, and whose last game came on New Year’s Day a year ago.)

The 2017 season really began in the spring, as Kaepernick, 29, with a sterling reputation as a teammate and with a Super Bowl on his résumé, waited to be signed. It never happened. He has since watched more than 40 other quarterbacks be pulled from football’s unemployment rolls instead.

Once the preseason started, Malcolm Jenkins of the Philadelphia Eagles raised a fist as his teammate Chris Long put his hand on Jenkins’s back. It was widely considered the first time a white N.F.L. player took part in the protests but mostly started a season-long discussion about what constitutes “took part.”

In Cleveland, more than a dozen Browns players knelt in front of the water coolers, offending many, including the local police union, which said it would not participate in flag ceremonies at future games if such conduct continued. It did not, and when the regular season began a few weeks later, the players ran onto the field with police officers, emergency medical workers and military personnel, everyone locking arms in some sort of chain of unity. (It will be remembered by some as the season’s high point. The Browns went 0-16.)

It all felt only vaguely related to Kaepernick’s unceremonious protests of 2016, which had required three games before anyone noticed. Trying to discern meaning in this season’s protests was as bewildering as defining a catch in the N.F.L. these days.

Ah, but this was 2017, when confusion was merely the first stage of good grief. Just as the regular season began, the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell, was asked if Kaepernick was good enough to play in the league.

“I’m not a football expert,” said Goodell, who later signed a five-year contract extension worth roughly $100 million, despite his lack of football expertise.

Only a few players protested during the first two weeks of the regular season, with more of them standing with a raised fist than kneeling or sitting. But things changed dramatically on a Friday in September. “Wouldn’t you love to see one of these N.F.L. owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, ‘Get that son of a bitch off the field right now — out!’” President Trump told a rally of supporters in Alabama. “‘He’s fired. He’s fired!’”

It was the verbal equivalent of starting a barroom brawl. Goodell and many team owners responded, mostly through tepid, prepared statements. Players, unrestrained, took to social media. Trump continued.

“If a player wants the privilege of making millions of dollars in the NFL, or other leagues, he or she should not be allowed to disrespect our Great American Flag (or Country) and should stand for the National Anthem,” Trump wrote on Twitter, part of a series of rhetorical bar stools he lobbed for most of a week. “If not, YOU’RE FIRED. Find something else to do!”

At least 100 N.F.L. players knelt for the anthem that weekend. The Seattle Seahawks and the Tennessee Titans broke league rules by staying inside during the anthem; the Titans missed the singer Meghan Linsey taking a knee at the end of her rendition. Alejandro Villanueva of the Pittsburgh Steelers came out of the stadium tunnel, barely, while his teammates stayed behind, a miscommunication that thrust them into the fray and made Villanueva an accidental hero among people opposed to the protests.

Aaron Rodgers posted an Instagram photo of himself kneeling during warm-ups, which Tom Brady liked, but both stood for the anthem. Their teams, like many others, linked arms.

The protests became a sporting form of interpretive dance. What does it mean to take a knee? Is it different from sitting? What about locking arms? Raising a fist? Putting your hand on someone’s shoulder? When LeSean McCoy of the Buffalo Bills stretched during the anthem, people did mental calisthenics to discern what it meant.

Things got weird. The Dallas Cowboys and the team’s owner, Jerry Jones, who had threatened his players against kneeling, knelt and linked arms on the field. Then they all stood before the anthem started — a flourish no one quite understood.

Fans booed. The president wrote on Twitter the next morning that the booing was the loudest he had ever heard. “Great anger,” he wrote.

Everyone, it seemed, found a reason to take some kind of stand. With the goal unclear — to force all players to stand at attention while we rush to the restroom or the beer line? — there was a lot of ruckus and noise, and little discussion or decorum.

High school athletes, cheerleaders, marching bands, police officers, city councils, rock stars, even a football team of 8-year-olds and a band playing the anthem for an Oakland A’s game knelt. Some marched to the N.F.L. offices or to the gates of stadiums in shows of solidarity.

Conversely, some burned their season tickets or team jerseys and vowed never to watch the N.F.L. again. A Missouri bar owner used the jerseys of two well-known protesting players as doormats to spell out “Lynch Kaepernick.” Plenty, including the president, blamed or credited the controversy for the N.F.L.’s fading television ratings (which were on a slide before the protests).

In early October, Vice President Mike Pence showed up to an Indianapolis Colts game and left abruptly (in what some called a stunt at Trump’s request) when players from the visiting San Francisco 49ers — Kaepernick’s former team — knelt for the anthem.

The N.F.L. and Goodell, longtime practitioners in the status quo, tiptoed the fence, to no one’s satisfaction, waiting for the whole thing to fade away, which it kind of did. They responded primarily with meetings, including with protesting players. There were offers to spend more money on charitable causes, but people could not agree on that, either. There was talk that the N.F.L. might just keep players in the locker room during the anthem next season.

“That’s almost as bad as kneeling!” the president said on Twitter in November, his ire temporarily resurrected.

By then, though, the number of players kneeling or sitting for the anthem had shrunk back to early-season levels, a protest movement hard to sustain without a clear, vocal leader and goals. In places like Seattle and San Francisco, where the majority of protesters played, anthem rituals became routine, barely noticed. Even the television networks turned their cameras away, having moved on.

Now, at season’s end, the top sports story of 2017 already feels like something that has come and gone — or is going, at least, perhaps just smoldering until it flares again. Oppression, by any measure, hasn’t ended, or perhaps even slowed. Police brutality against people of color remains a major issue. Those were not things that would go away quickly, if ever.

So were the protests a success? Or does something else have to happen? How will history judge the N.F.L. season of 2017?

Sunday’s games will not be a memorable part of the story. Nine members of the Seahawks sat, as they had most of the season, while another knelt with a teammate’s hand on his shoulder. Four 49ers knelt. Six other teams had at least one player take part, the reports said, judging by their posture.

When the anthems and the television commercials ended, the games and cheers began, as if nothing had happened. The sideline posturing of 2017 came to a close. Fitting for football, it will take a long review to determine just what it was that we think we saw.