Laurel J. Richie, the W.N.B.A. president, is stepping down after more than four years on the job.

The league said in a news release Wednesday that Richie was leaving to pursue other opportunities, including work for nonprofit institutions and being an advocate for girls and young women.

Beginning next week, Mark Tatum, the deputy commissioner of the N.B.A., will oversee the W.N.B.A. until a new president is hired.

“The league’s quality of play and depth of talent have never been better,” Tatum said in a statement. “We remain steadfast in our commitment to achieving growth in fan interest and future business performance reflective of the extraordinary state of the on-court product.”

Richie assumed her role with the league in May 2011, becoming the first African-American to lead a major sports league.

“I am proud of what the W.N.B.A. has been able to accomplish during my tenure and am grateful for the opportunity to play my part in setting the stage for the 20th season and beyond,” she said.

In her five seasons at the helm, Richie led initiatives to improve the visibility of the league’s players.

She helped ensure a measure of financial stability for the teams by completing an eight-year collective bargaining agreement with the players and extended a contract with ESPN through 2025.

Richie’s departure comes about six weeks after N.B.A. Commissioner Adam Silver made public comments about the state of the W.N.B.A., indicating he thought that the league “would have broken through by now” and that it was “not where we hoped it would be.”

The league closed out its 19th season with a stellar, five-game W.N.B.A. Finals, which the Minnesota Lynx won and garnered strong ratings.

Yet the W.N.B.A. experienced its lowest average attendance in the league’s history. Some of that was because San Antonio moved arenas while its home court was being renovated.

Richie faced several challenges this past year, including the star Brittney Griner being arrested for domestic violence and then her brief marriage to her fellow All-Star Glory Johnson. Griner and Johnson were suspended seven games.

Diana Taurasi was paid by her Russian team to skip the W.N.B.A. season. Candace Parker missed the first half of the season to rest.

Richie also oversaw the Tulsa Shock’s move to Dallas this year and the purchase of the Los Angeles Sparks by Guggenheim Partners and Magic Johnson Enterprises in 2014.

Nathan Adrian broke out of a shooting slump with a career-high 22 points, and No. 10 West Virginia beat No. 1 Baylor, 89-68, on Tuesday night in the Bears’ first game in program history as the top-ranked team.

Baylor (15-1, 3-1 Big 12) committed a season-high 29 turnovers and never led in its second true road game of the season. West Virginia (14-2, 3-1) started the second half with an 11-3 run and at one point led by 26.

KANSAS 81, OKLAHOMA 70 Frank Mason scored 19 of his 28 points in the second half, and No. 2 Kansas rallied to beat host Oklahoma. Josh Jackson scored 16 points for the Jayhawks (15-1, 4-0 Big 12), who have won 15 straight. Rashard Odomes and Kameron McGusty each scored 13 points for the Sooners (6-9, 0-4).

VILLANOVA 79, XAVIER 54 Kris Jenkins and Josh Hart each scored 20 points as No. 3 Villanova routed No. 15 Xavier. The host Wildcats (16-1, 4-1 Big East) were dominant in the second half, which they started by making 15 of 20 shots to hand Xavier (13-3, 3-1) its first conference loss.

FLORIDA STATE 88, DUKE 72 Xavier Rathan-Mayes scored 18 of his 21 points in the second half, helping No. 9 Florida State beat No. 7 Duke in Tallahassee. Dwayne Bacon and Terance Mann each had 13 points as the Seminoles (16-1, 4-0) set a university record with their 11th straight win. Luke Kennard led Duke (14-3, 2-2) with 23 points.

PLAYER’S DEATH RULED A SUICIDE The Cook County, Ill., medical examiner said that Jordan Hankins, a sophomore on the Northwestern women’s team, committed suicide in her dorm room this week.

The office released the results of an autopsy a day after the body of Hankins, 19, was found. She was recruited out of Lawrence North High School in Indianapolis and averaged 3.6 points in 11 games this season.

Dennis Schroder had 19 points and 10 assists, Dwight Howard added 14 points and 16 rebounds, and the Atlanta Hawks won their season-high seventh straight game with a 117-97 victory over the Nets at Barclays Center. Brook Lopez scored 20 points for the Nets, who have lost seven straight and 12 of their last 13.

JAZZ 100, CAVALIERS 92 Gordon Hayward went blow for blow with LeBron James in the second half to help Utah beat Cleveland in Salt Lake City. Hayward had 22 points and went back and forth with James during the decisive third quarter, during which James brought the Cavaliers back from a 15-point halftime deficit before Hayward drove the lead back to 14.

BUCKS 109, SPURS 107 Michael Beasley scored a season-high 28 points in place of an ill Giannis Antetokounmpo, and Milwaukee rallied to win at San Antonio. Kawhi Leonard had 30 points for the Spurs.

RAPTORS 114, CELTICS 106 DeMar DeRozan scored a season-high 41 points, Kyle Lowry had 24, and host Toronto ended Boston’s four-game winning streak.

The rosters for the N.H.L. All-Star Game are brimming with top-shelf talent, although they lack an unusual fan-picked favorite like John Scott.

The rookies Auston Matthews and Patrik Laine were among the 40 players selected for the N.H.L.’s All-Star weekend, which will be held Jan. 27-29 in Los Angeles. The game format will again be a three-on-three tournament featuring teams from each of the N.H.L.’s four divisions.

The Pacific Division won the tournament last year, but the weekend was dominated by the unlikely story of Scott. A journeyman enforcer, he scored two goals in the tournament and was voted the most valuable player after a grass-roots online campaign by fans to vote him in as a captain.

HURRICANES 5, BLUE JACKETS 3 Jordan Staal scored a go-ahead goal on a deflection with 16 minutes 10 seconds to play, and host Carolina beat Columbus, which has a league-best 60 points but has lost three of four.

Manchester United closed in on the final of the English League Cup by beating injury-hit Hull, 2-0, in the first leg of their semifinal thanks to second-half goals by Juan Mata and Marouane Fellaini. The second leg is at Hull on Jan. 26, and United is a huge favorite to reach the final for a ninth time.

COSMOS COULD BE ON THE MOVE The Cosmos have a new owner and will most likely be moving from Long Island to New York City.

Rocco B. Commisso, chief executive of Mediacom Communications Corporation and a former soccer player at Columbia, bought a majority ownership stake in the team, in the second-tier North American Soccer League, and will become the club’s chairman.

The Cosmos have been playing at Hofstra’s Shuart Stadium. Commisso said the team had started discussions to play at MCU Park in Brooklyn, home of the Mets’ Class A team in the New York-Penn League, or at Columbia, which renamed its soccer stadium after him in 2013.

Frida Hansdotter, the defending World Cup slalom champion, convincingly won the last race in the discipline ahead of next month’s world championships.

Hansdotter lost almost four-tenths of a second off her commanding first-run lead but still finished 0.58 of a second ahead of Nina Loeseth in Lachau, Austria.

Mikaela Shiffrin, the reigning Olympic champion, posted the fastest second-run time to share third place with Wendy Holdener, 0.78 of a second off the lead.

A Michigan doctor accused of sexually abusing gymnasts was sued by 18 women and girls, the latest legal action over alleged assaults, mostly at his clinic at Michigan State.

The lawsuit against Dr. Larry Nassar, Michigan State, U.S.A. Gymnastics and a Lansing-area gymnastics club was filed in federal court in western Michigan. It makes claims of civil rights violations, discrimination and negligence.

Rachael Denhollander, a 32-year-old former gymnast, said she was assaulted by Nassar while seeing him for wrist and back injuries at age 15 in 2000. She said she did not file a complaint at the time because she believed her “voice would not be heard.”

Almost five months after the Rio de Janeiro Olympics ended, another venue is struggling to find a use. Rio’s city hall said that the Deodoro Olympic Park, which was to be used as a park and recreation area after the Games, had been closed.

Deodoro was the second-largest venue cluster during the Olympics. It held equestrian, rugby and field hockey events, among others.

The German driver Sebastian Vettel broke Ferrari’s Formula One drought with a victory on Sunday over the Mercedes drivers Lewis Hamilton of England and Valtteri Bottas of Finland at the season-opening Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne.

Ferrari had not won a Formula One grand prix since Vettel’s 2015 victory in Singapore.

With new rules designed to make the cars faster this season, Vettel showed that Ferrari’s extra speed in preseason testing was genuine.

For the second year in a row, Hamilton started in the pole position and placed second. Last year, he lost to Nico Rosberg, at the time his Mercedes teammate, who went on to edge him for the world championship before retiring. This time, Vettel, a four-time world champion, took the lead and held onto it when Hamilton made a pit stop for new tires early.

HAPPY AT HOME Kyle Larson persevered through four late restarts to win the Auto Club 400 in Fontana, Calif., and earn his second career victory in the Nascar Cup Series.

Brad Keselowski was second, and Clint Bowyer came in third for his best finish since June 2015.

Larson, a California native, also won the Xfinity Series race on Saturday to complete a weekend sweep.

RACER KILLED IN FLORIDA The veteran sprint car racer David Steele was killed during a race in Bradenton, Fla. Desoto Speedway officials said on Saturday night that Steele, 42, was trying to win his 100th race in Florida.

Dustin Johnson became the first player to sweep the World Golf Championships with a dominant week at the match play event in Austin, Tex.

Johnson never trailed in any of his seven matches, ending with a 1-up win over Jon Rahm for his third straight victory that left no doubt that he is the No. 1 player in the world.

But Rahm made it interesting. Johnson was 4-up with six holes to play when Rahm, a 22-year-old rookie from Spain, hit a driver over the water and onto the 13th green to win the hole with a birdie. He birdied 15 and 16, too, but could not make up any more ground on Johnson.

Johnson never went beyond the 16th hole until Sunday, when he had to hold on to beat Hideto Tanihara in the semifinals and Rahm in the championship match.

TOURNAMENT RECORD TIED Mirim Lee of South Korea shot a seven-under-par 65 to win the Kia Classic in Carlsbad, Calif., by six strokes and tie the tournament record of 20 under. The victory was Lee’s third on the L.P.G.A. Tour and her first since she won two titles in 2014, her rookie year.

Lee, 26, tied the tournament record set in 2015 by Cristie Kerr. She just missed two putts — for eagle on 16 and birdie on 18 — that would have put her at 21-under.

 AMERICAN TRIUMPHS IN PUERTO RICO D. A. Points started with five straight birdies and closed with a six-under 66 to win the Puerto Rico Open in Rio Grande.

Venus Williams made the most of her home-court advantage at the Miami Open in Key Biscayne, Fla.

Playing for the 18th time in a tournament she considers her hometown event, Williams beat the qualifier Patricia Maria Tig of Romania, 6-3, 6-0, in a third-round match.

Williams, who lives 80 miles away in Palm Beach Gardens, has won the tournament three times, the last in 2001.

Seeded 11th, she will meet Svetlana Kuznetsova of Russia, the No. 7 seed, who defeated Taylor Townsend, 6-4, 6-2.

Top-ranked Angelique Kerber rallied to beat Shelby Rogers of the United States, 6-4, 7-5.

In men’s play, No. 2-seeded Kei Nishikori of Japan outlasted Fernando Verdasco of Spain, 7-6 (2), 6-7 (5), 6-1.

No. 3-seeded Milos Raonic of Canada withdrew after aggravating a hamstring injury that sidelined him for nearly a month. Raonic pulled out before his match against the American qualifier Jared Donaldson.

Andreas Athanasiou scored 1 minute 52 seconds into overtime, and Detroit edged visiting Minnesota, 3-2.

Red Wings forward Gustav Nyquist controlled a rebound and made a long pass to set up Athanasiou, who faked out Wild goaltender Devan Dubnyk with a move before flipping the puck into the net.

The Wild have lost eight of their last nine but have clinched a playoff spot.

STARS 2, DEVILS 1 Tyler Seguin scored on a power play 20 seconds into overtime, and Dallas rallied to beat the host Devils.

Brook Lopez scored 23 points, and the Nets thumped short-handed Atlanta, 107-92, handing the Hawks their seventh straight loss.

Lopez became the Nets’ career leader in field goals, passing Buck Williams, when he sank a 10-foot jumper with less than five minutes remaining.

Jeremy Lin scored 19 for the Nets (16-57), who have won three of four, improving their league-worst record.

The Hawks All-Star Paul Millsap missed his fifth straight game with tightness in his left knee.

ROCKETS 137, THUNDER 125 Lou Williams scored 31 points off the bench, James Harden added 22 points and 12 assists, and host Houston never trailed against Oklahoma City.

BULLS 109, BUCKS 94 Nikola Mirotic tied a season high with 28 points, Jimmy Butler had 20 points and 14 assists, and Chicago pulled away in the second half in Milwaukee.

Chicago Bears cornerback Deiondre Hall and Green Bay Packers cornerback Makinton Dorleant were arrested outside a bar in Cedar Falls on Saturday, the police said.

Hall was cited for charges including disorderly conduct. Dorleant was cited for interference with official acts.

According to a police affidavit, Hall did not respond to police instructions and spit in the officers’ faces after they responded to a report of a fight. The police said an officer used a stun gun on Hall to get him into the squad car.

Dorleant was detained after the authorities said he approached officers in a threatening manner.

Hall and Dorleant played college football in Cedar Falls at Northern Iowa.

Making his debut at grand champion, sumo’s highest rank, the Japanese wrestler Kisenosato won the Spring Grand Sumo Tournament in Osaka, Japan.

Needing a win in regulation to force a tiebreaker, Kisenosato beat Terunofuji of Mongolia to give both wrestlers a record of 13-2. Kisenosato then threw down Terunofuji in a playoff to win his second straight title.

Stefan Kraft of Austria clinched his first overall World Cup ski-jump title with a victory in the final event of the season in Planica, Slovenia.

Kraft held an 86-point lead on Kamil Stoch of Poland in the overall standings and needed just one jump in Slovenia because the second round was canceled due to high winds.

Kraft went 250.0 meters in the first round for 244.3 points, earning his eighth victory of the season. Andreas Wellinger of Germany placed second at 236.2, and Noriaki Kasai of Japan was third with 223.9.

TWO WIN U.S. SLALOM CHAMPIONSHIPS Resi Stiegler and A J Ginnis won slalom titles at the United States Alpine Championships on Sugarloaf Mountain in Carrabassett Valley, Me.

LAS VEGAS — Carmelo Anthony said he was having trouble sleeping. In the aftermath of the fatal police shootings of two black men, followed by the retaliatory killings of five police officers in Dallas by a sniper, Anthony awoke in the middle of the night this month and logged on to his Instagram account.

“Just started typing,” Anthony said Monday as the men’s national basketball team commenced its training camp in Las Vegas ahead of the Olympics next month in Brazil. “That’s how everything came about.”

Anthony, 32, who is chasing his third gold medal, appears determined to use his platform as a sports star to advance his growing interest in social activism, particularly when it comes to gun violence. He plans to help organize a town-hall meeting with community leaders in Los Angeles soon, he said.

“Because at the end of the day, what I put out there on Instagram and what we did for the ESPYs kind of sparked something,” Anthony said, referring to a message he helped deliver at the ESPN sports awards show last week. “So now we got to follow through with that and make sure everybody is following through.”

Anthony said he was disturbed by the fatal police shootings this month of Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge, La., and Philando Castile in Falcon Heights, Minn., and by the violence in Dallas. Anthony subsequently posted a 307-word essay on social media that called for unity and for high-profile athletes to help effect meaningful change.

“We have to put the pressure on the people in charge in order to get this thing we call JUSTICE right,” Anthony wrote, adding: “While I don’t have a solution, and I’m pretty sure a lot of people don’t have a solution, we need to come together more than anything at this time. We need each other. These politicians have to step up and fight for change.”

On Sunday, there was still more violence: three law enforcement officials dead in Baton Rouge after a gunman opened fire. Anthony said he was running out of words in the wake of so much bloodshed.

With his essay, Anthony posted a 1967 photo of Jim Brown, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (then known as Lew Alcindor) and other black athletes who had gathered to support Muhammad Ali’s refusal to fight in Vietnam.

“I’m calling for all my fellow ATHLETES to step up and take charge,” Anthony wrote. “There’s NO more sitting back and being afraid of tackling and addressing political issues anymore. Those days are long gone.”

The message resonated. Anthony said he had heard from high-profile friends: LeBron James, Chris Paul and Dwyane Wade, who were to appear at the ESPY Awards on Wednesday. Anthony had not planned to attend, he said, but James, Paul and Wade invited him to share his message. As he stood on stage next to them, Anthony opened the televised show by reiterating his view that the country was in dire need of a conversation.

“We cannot ignore the realities of the current state of America,” he said. “The events of the past week have put a spotlight on the injustice, distrust and anger that plague so many of us. The system is broken. The problems are not new. The violence is not new. And the racial divide is definitely not new. But the urgency to create change is at an all-time high.”

James, in particular, has used his celebrity platform to speak on social issues. In December 2014, he helped lead a movement among players to wear T-shirts emblazoned with the phrase “I Can’t Breathe” — a popular cry among protesters in the wake of a grand jury’s decision not to indict a New York police officer whose chokehold led to the death of an unarmed black man, Eric Garner, on Staten Island that July.

At the ESPYs, James and Wade both called on other athletes to exert their influence.

“As athletes, it’s on us to challenge each other to do even more than we already do in our own communities,” Wade said. “The conversation cannot stop as our schedules get busy again.”

Anthony easily could have bowed out of the Olympics to rest for the coming N.B.A. season. But as he told reporters in March, with the Knicks scuffling through another disappointing stretch, he wants to play in the Olympics so he can be reminded of “what that success feels like.”

The Knicks wound up missing the playoffs for the third straight season. They have made improvements in recent weeks, however. Phil Jackson, the team president, traded for Derrick Rose and acquired Joakim Noah, Courtney Lee and Brandon Jennings in free agency, bolstering the Knicks’ rotation and, if everyone can stay healthy, their playoff hopes.

“The front office stepped up,” Anthony said. “On paper, we look good. We look real good.”

At the same time, the Olympic experience clearly means something to Anthony — perhaps now more than ever, he said, given recent events.

“The timing couldn’t have been any better for us as a country,” he said, “having a chance to come together, be united, and then go over there on the biggest stage you can possibly play on and have that voice, represent something that’s bigger than us 12 players.”

In 2004, Anthony made a brief but notorious appearance in a video that advised against “snitching” to law enforcement officials. On Monday, he was asked to reconcile those views with his current social commentary. He said that he had matured, that he had grown to understand the power of his voice.

“That was something I didn’t know at 19, 20, 21 years old,” he said. “You just don’t know those things. You go through life like nothing can affect you.”

It is not often that David Hockney and Dwayne Schintzius come up in the same conversation.

The art of Jonas Wood, however, is one of the rare places that the British pop-art pioneer and the late N.B.A. journeyman can coexist.

On the one hand, Wood’s brand of off-kilter realism is often compared to Hockney’s work, and Wood cites Hockney as one of his major influences. On the other hand, Wood’s current show of portraits at the Anton Kern Gallery in Chelsea is dominated by an enormous painting of an early-1990s San Antonio Spurs basketball card featuring Schintzius and his legendary mullet (nicknamed the Lobster).

Sports has always played an outsize role in Wood’s work. His love of portraiture drew him to sports cards, whose bold typography and abstract backgrounds are elements that Wood loves to experiment with. He is also fascinated by Manute Bol — he has painted the 7-foot-7 former basketball center numerous times. From the lighting and composition of a televised poker match to a floating basketball to the confrontational stare in a promotional boxing poster, Wood has found inspiration in the unlikeliest corners of the sports world.

He was born outside Boston, and grew up idolizing Larry Bird and rooting for the local teams. After college, he moved to Los Angeles, where he adopted the Clippers and matured as an artist. The New York Times critic Roberta Smith said his work “presents a highly personal but impersonally observed reality.” Museums like the Guggenheim and the Museum of Modern Art feature his work in their collections, and paintings of his have sold for six figures at auction. Through it all, Wood continues to use sports as one of his major themes.

Wood was asked to select some of his favorite sports-theme paintings and explain what drew him to his subjects. Needless to say, it is not often that Patrick Ewing and Chinese scroll paintings come up in the same conversation, either.

Wood’s show at the Anton Kern Gallery is up through Oct. 29.

I was really into this Dwayne card because of the wood grain, as well as his extreme look. I painted his head upside down because I don’t like to paint high on a ladder. I flip the canvas and the image, and then paint.

I don’t always know of the athletes I paint, and in this case, I had never heard of Dwayne. I was turned on to it when a good friend showed me the image. I purchased the card and had it for a few years before I painted it.

I love Manute. I think I have made eight to 10 portraits of him. He is unique, strange and magical to me.

I watch and play a lot of poker, and I stream live high buy-in tournaments. This was from a photo I took of my computer while watching the Aussie Millions 250K buy-in. I was super into the stage lights and the pink glow. When choosing what to paint, it has a lot to do with if I am attracted to the image on a variety of levels: subject matter, color, composition and so on.

For me, sports cards are ready-made portraits. They’re so accessible to my practice because they are flat, have bright colors and have lettering. Also, the backgrounds are always blurry, which is exciting because they are abstract, and I have to figure out a way to interpret them.

Scholl Canyon is where I learned how to play golf when I first moved to L.A. I had never played golf before moving to the West Coast in 2003. I really wanted this painting to be flat, like an old Chinese scroll painting. This was in my first show in N.Y.C.

I always loved boxing, and when I started to make paintings of sports players, I was attracted to these fighters’ poses in the promotional images. They would stare right at you, which I think is powerful.

This is the first sports card I ever made. I stayed up all night and made it without stopping. I made a similar one of Patrick Ewing the next day. Larry Bird was a childhood idol of mine. There was a lot of love and emotion put into this drawing.