Chris Bosh, one of the top players in the N.B.A., has never caused trouble for his team, on or off the court. He has won two N.B.A. titles and been selected for the All-Star Game 11 times. The Miami Heat, however, do not want him to step on the court for them this season, or perhaps ever again.

In one of the strangest and most ethically challenging standoffs in sports history, Bosh and the Heat are locked in a dispute over whether he should be deemed medically fit to play after dealing with serious health problems. With training camp scheduled to start this week, Bosh says he is ready to go. The Heat say he is not.

Bosh’s last two seasons have been cut short by blood clots. He has indicated that he has worked with a private physician to devise therapies that would allow him to play. The Heat are less certain.

Bosh is owed about $76 million over the next three seasons whether he plays or not. So if the team is, in fact, looking out for Bosh’s welfare, it suggests an exception to what is perhaps a more common practice of pro sports franchises: pushing players to compete regardless of medical concerns.

The Heat announced their conclusion, citing a medical exam, after Bosh’s recent emergence from a self-imposed cocoon of silence to wage a public battle with the team’s medical staff. Bosh has done several interviews with Uninterrupted — his former teammate LeBron James’s digital platform for athletes — in which he has sought to make his case.

“Yeah, I’ll be there,” he said about training camp on a recent Uninterrupted podcast. “Will I be cleared? I don’t know. That’s out of my hands. I will play basketball in the N.B.A. I’m confident.”

People with blood clots typically take blood-thinning medication, which is probably one of the most daunting hurdles for Bosh. Athletes who are on blood thinners are advised to avoid contact sports because of an increased chance of internal bleeding and other complications. Even an elbow to the ribs could cause significant damage, said Dr. David Forsh, the chief of orthopedic trauma at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in Manhattan.

“There are a lot of risks,” he said.

Bosh experienced his first known clotting problem in February 2015. He had cramps, spasms and shortness of breath, although he tried to hide his symptoms, he said. Bosh recalled one particular instance when he was in pain until 3 or 4 in the morning and the Heat were scheduled to face the Dallas Mavericks the next day. Bosh played because the Heat were already short-handed.

“Not the best thing to do,” Bosh said on the podcast.

He added: “One thing about athletes — and I don’t know what it is about us — we ignore pain, or we try our best to ignore pain. And I think that’s one of the worst things you can possibly do.”

Bosh was eventually hospitalized, and tests revealed that a blood clot in his calf had traveled to his lungs, causing a pulmonary embolism — a problem that can be fatal. Bosh had surgery and spent nine days in a hospital. He lost 20 to 25 pounds, he said, and missed the final 30 games of the 2014-15 season.

Bosh has never publicly articulated his specific course of treatment, but he presumably took blood-thinning drugs. He appeared in a television commercial for one such medication, Xarelto.

Bosh was cleared by the Heat to return for the 2015-16 season opener. He played well through the first half of the season, averaging 19.1 points and 7.4 rebounds per game before the All-Star break. But a few days before the All-Star Game, he awoke with a sore calf. He was soon found to have had a recurrence of blood clots. He met with team doctors, who told him that his season was over and that his career was probably finished, too, he said.

“I felt right away that I was written off,” Bosh said in one of his interviews with Uninterrupted. He added, “If a doctor tells me, ‘Hey, that’s it, and this is how it is,’ and I don’t buy that, then I think I have the right to disagree with you.”

Bosh also alluded to the tension between himself and the Heat’s medical staff.

“If you’re an athlete in this game, you have to protect your own interests, and you have to protect your body and your family,” Bosh said. “If one doctor is a doctor for 15 guys, who’s paying this guy?”

He added, “If you’re paying a doctor through your pocket, your insurance — whatever that case may be — that changes their interest.”

It has mostly remained a one-sided public tussle. The Heat, aside from sporadic statements, have not spoken in detail about Bosh’s medical situation, nor have team officials said what liability, if any, the franchise might have if something were to happen to Bosh on the court.

The Heat’s president, Pat Riley, told reporters on Monday that Bosh’s career with the team “is probably over.”

“There is not a next step for us,” Riley said. “It’s pretty definitive for us in our position.”

The Heat declined interview requests for this article. The players’ union did not immediately return a call seeking comment.

Samantha Brennan, a philosophy professor at Western University in London, Ontario, teaches a class on sports ethics that touches on the role of team doctors and the conflicts of interest that can arise — namely, clearing athletes to return to competition before they are ready.

“That’s what makes the case involving Chris Bosh so unusual,” Brennan said, referring to the urge among teams to send players back onto the field.

So what happens if an athlete, fully aware of the medical risks, insists on continuing to play? Does the team have a moral responsibility to look out for the athlete’s well-being? In most cases, Brennan said, risk taking is left to the discretion of adults. The challenge with many athletes, she said, is that they have invested so much of themselves in their careers from an early age that it can cloud their judgment.

“When they need to make a difficult decision, it puts them in a bind,” Brennan said. “It makes it very hard for them to say, ‘I’m ready to stop playing.’”

Ultimately, Brennan said, an athlete is an employee, and team officials have the power to do what they want.

“So they’re making two kinds of decisions,” Brennan said, referring to the Heat. “One is an ethical decision about not wanting someone they know and care about — imagine if he died playing. They’re also making a self-interested decision because they’re worried about injuries and liability.”

Dr. Jack Ansell, a professor of medicine at Hofstra Northwell School of Medicine on Long Island, said he knew of several athletes who had managed blood-clot problems by taking blood thinners between games and then allowing the medication to be flushed from their systems before they returned to competition.

Ansell, a member and former chairman of the medical and scientific advisory board of the National Blood Clot Alliance, has not examined Bosh and has no specific knowledge of his case. But Ansell said he suspected that Bosh would need long-term blood-thinning therapy to prevent recurring clots and that the grueling schedule of the N.B.A. would make intermittent treatment difficult.

“You’re playing games every two or three nights,” he said, “so there’s no real time off.”

Rebekah Bradford Plath, a speedskater who competed at the 2010 Winter Olympics, developed a pulmonary embolism in 2012. While still on blood-thinning therapy, she resumed training. The risks were fairly minimal. Long-track speedskating is a noncontact sport, although falls do happen; Bradford Plath wore a helmet.

“I do know that I probably made some of my teammates nervous when they were skating around me,” she said in a telephone interview. “Some of them understood the significance of what I was doing. But I trusted my ability, I trusted the ability of my teammates, and I felt comfortable and confident.”

Last year, after having knee surgery, Bradford Plath had a recurrence of blood clotting even though she was taking blood thinners at the time. After her physician increased the dosage, she said, the clot cleared.

Bradford Plath, who still takes blood thinners when she travels on airplanes, continues to train with an eye on the 2018 Winter Olympics.

More than 15 years after they fired him, the Dallas Stars brought back Coach Ken Hitchcock in the hope that he can lead them to the Stanley Cup again.

Hitchcock led the Stars to their only Stanley Cup championship in 1999 and took the team back to the finals the next season. He won 277 of his 503 games and led the Stars to five straight division titles.

AROUND THE N.H.L. Tom Wilson scored his first career playoff goal 5 minutes 15 seconds into overtime and the host Washington Capitals survived a scare to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs, 3-2, in Game 1 of their first-round series. Justin Williams scored twice for the top-seeded Capitals to erase a two-goal deficit.  Pekka Rinne made 29 saves, Viktor Arvidsson scored in the first period and the visiting Nashville Predators beat the Chicago Blackhawks, 1-0, in Game 1 of their first-round playoff series.

Max Kepler, Miguel Sano and Robbie Grossman all homered, and the Minnesota Twins routed the host Detroit Tigers, 11-5.

Minnesota broke the game open in the fourth and fifth innings, when Tigers starter Jordan Zimmermann (1-1) issued all of his career-high five walks. Zimmermann gave up five runs and Anibal Sanchez allowed six.

Phil Hughes (2-0) allowed four runs and five hits in five and two-thirds innings as the Twins avoided a sweep.

DARVISH DOMINATES Yu Darvish pitched seven scoreless innings, and Carlos Gomez hit a leadoff homer as the Texas Rangers beat the host Los Angeles Angels, 8-3.

Dustin Johnson, the top-ranked male golfer, said he would return to competition next month after pulling out of the Masters last week with an injured back.

Johnson said he would return at the Wells Fargo Championships at Eagle Point Golf Club, which starts May 4.

Johnson had won his previous three starts and was among the favorites to win the Masters, but he hurt his back in a fall the day before the tournament started.

The U.S. Center for SafeSport, a new organization responsible for improving athlete safety in Olympic sports, is investigating 21 cases of alleged sexual misconduct or abuse just three weeks after opening its doors.

The center’s chief executive, Shellie Pfohl, said the number of reports might have resulted from people with claims of abuse having waited for the center to open.

It opened March 23 after a five-year fund-raising and organizing effort that began after a series of sexual abuse cases at U.S.A. Swimming.

The Orlando Magic fired General Manager Rob Hennigan after missing the postseason for a fifth straight season.

The assistant general manager Matt Lloyd will lead the team while it searches for Hennigan’s replacement.

Hennigan was the youngest general manager when he was hired in 2012 at the age of 30. The team was 132-278 (.322) — second-worst in the N.B.A. — over his tenure.

Upon his unanticipated return to the N.B.A., Jerry Colangelo especially enjoyed one Philadelphia news media report noting how the 76ers had not-so-coincidently hired a 76-year-old to restore their credibility.

“It then said not to think this is a 76-year-old who doesn’t have the energy that’s necessary for the job,” he said.

Age is a number, Colangelo contends, and in the case of the historically bad 76ers, the higher the better. Sam Hinkie, Philadelphia’s 38-year-old general manager, had turned the team into a competitive eyesore, and he desperately needed a father figure. With encouragement from an exasperated N.B.A. league office, back was Colangelo, the patriarch of USA Basketball and once upon a time — at just under 30 with the Phoenix Suns — the youngest general manager in sports.

N.B.A. legend reminds us that Colangelo discovered right away what Hinkie has lately been learning the hard way: The draft is a veritable crapshoot. The Suns in 1969 lost a coin flip for the first pick. Instead of Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who went to Milwaukee, the expansion Suns tried to rise with a less heralded big man, Neal Walk.

Denied Abdul-Jabbar, who became and remains the league’s career leading scorer, Colangelo built the Suns into a strong — albeit championshipless — franchise that he eventually owned. The immediate goal in Philadelphia, where Colangelo was brought in last week as chairman of basketball operations, will for the foreseeable future be somewhat less ambitious.

The 76ers, Colangelo said in a telephone interview from his home base in Phoenix, are merely “stretching for credibility.”

Do we know of any 1-26 teams that are not? Recklessly inexperienced and also unlucky, the 76ers will on Friday night host the 12-14 Knicks, a team halfway to title contention, if only by comparison with the Sixers, described by Colangelo as a team of “a couple of talented young guys and D-League players.”

Hinkie’s most damaging misjudgment has not necessarily been his willingness to sacrifice a few seasons to stockpile draft picks and build organically. His selection in three successive drafts of centers Nerlens Noel, the still-injured Joel Embiid and Jahlil Okafor has been dubious because none of them fit the court-spacing trend of being skilled outside the lane.

Worse, even, than Hinkie’s cumulative draft record has been his stunning refusal to provide a support system for a youth-dominated roster and a head coach, Brett Brown, who had been a career-long assistant until Hinkie hired him in 2013.

Recent revelations of off-hours skirmishes involving Okafor, the just-turned-20 rookie from Duke, exposed Hinkie for failing to provide player mentorship. Before joining the Sixers, Okafor had rarely lost a game, much less all but one of 27. He recently was caught on video on a darkened Boston street, dangerously lashing out at people who had teased him about his team’s record.

Not a good look for Okafor or the league. Colangelo acknowledged the dire situation, saying the team had reached out to former players and solid citizens like Shane Battier and Elton Brand.

“Classy guys like that, if interested, could really offer something to us,” Colangelo said.

In dealing with the numbing beatings they have taken across the N.B.A. landscape, the players aren’t alone in need of confidants, or a good shrink. Brown’s career record is 38-153. Though he recently received a contract extension, he may soon have an experienced sidekick. The 76ers have acknowledged talks with Mike D’Antoni about an associate head coaching position.

D’Antoni’s coaching roots are in Phoenix, which presages more Colangelo-inspired changes, possibly including his son, Bryan, formerly the executive steward in Toronto.

Someone of Jerry Colangelo’s age and stature does not get involved to rearrange the furniture. Asked why he had agreed to return, and to a team in such disrepair, Colangelo said he was not playing gin rummy at the country club between dips in the sauna.

In addition to running USA Basketball as its chairman, he has been involved in the upgrading of the basketball program at Grand Canyon University in Phoenix.

“People ask me, ‘Jerry, when are you going to stop? ” he said. “Here’s what I say: I don’t like the word retirement. I say go as big as you can and as hard as you can — and you’ll know when you can’t.”

He has been planning for the eventual relinquishing of his USA Basketball chairmanship to Mike Krzyzewski, who will turn the coaching reins over to Gregg Popovich after completing his third Olympic cycle, in Rio de Janeiro next summer. Succession has been the overriding theme of Colangelo’s approach to developing the national team from the disjointed, deflated program he inherited after the 2004 Games in Athens.

Colangelo asked the N.B.A.’s best American players to view the team as something more than a personal branding enhancement and for long-term commitments that would help establish tradition for younger players to aspire to on the way up.

“This is also how it should work with an N.B.A. team,” he said, citing Steve Nash’s apprenticeship in Phoenix for two years, sitting behind Kevin Johnson and Jason Kidd. Nash was then traded to Dallas upon request, Colangelo said, but eventually returned to be Phoenix’s pillar point guard.

On display Wednesday night at Madison Square Garden, where the Knicks defeated Minnesota, 107-102, was Karl-Anthony Towns, drafted first in June by the Timberwolves and the beneficiary of the support system lacking in Philadelphia.

Towns, who scored 25 points and grabbed 10 rebounds, was a force inside and out after saying before the game, “I always have high expectations for myself, so I feel like I’ve been underachieving so far.”

He is extraordinarily talented, exceedingly poised. He is also 20 and has been heralded, like most first picks, as a savior. Flip Saunders, the Timberwolves’ coach and president of basketball who died of cancer in October, brought the wily Kevin Garnett back to Minnesota last season to help tutor the 2014 first-round pick Andrew Wiggins. When the team landed Towns, Saunders added the veterans Tayshaun Prince and Andre Miller.

“That was how Flip envisioned the team,” said Miller, a 39-year-old point guard. “He told me there would be ups and downs, but the team needed veterans because the league’s maturity level has changed, and society has changed on how we view young guys and what we expect out of them. They get thrown to the wolves, and the toughest thing mentally when you’re losing is trying to get through the season, how to stay positive, try not to play with negative thoughts.”

When Miller was a rookie in Cleveland, he recalled, the veteran Mark Bryant provided a steadying voice. When Garnett broke in with the Timberwolves in 1995, right out of high school, he leaned on Terry Porter, a 10-year veteran, and Sam Mitchell, a six-year vet and now — having moved up from staff assistant when Saunders became ill — Garnett’s head coach.

Before Wednesday night’s game, Mitchell said that he had heard Garnett giving Towns the same advice on facing the Knicks’ prized rookie, Kristaps Porzingis, that he himself had given the young Garnett before Garnett took on the likes of Shaquille O’Neal and later Tim Duncan: Don’t make friends with guys you’re going to clash with for the next 10 to 15 years.

A good argument can be made that understanding how to lose is requisite to learning how to win. Across the decades, Colangelo has been up, down and all around. There’s a new patriarch in Philadelphia, and the organizational pecking order is now age before Hinkie.

Chris Froome cracked during a grueling climb to the finish and lost the overall lead in the Tour de France to Fabio Aru on Thursday after a demanding stage won by Romain Bardet.

Froome’s Sky teammates had controlled the race until the final kilometer leading to the ski station of Peyragudes, but Froome was dropped in a final section that featured slopes with a 20 percent gradient.

Bardet won Stage 12 ahead of Rigoberto Uran and Aru, who seized the overall lead from Froome, a three-time champion, by six seconds. Bardet is third over all, 25 seconds off the pace.

Team Sky had dominated the stage until the final 350 meters, when Aru made his move. Froome was able to follow Aru, his Italian rival, for only a few meters before he cracked, and he crossed the line in seventh place, 22 seconds behind Bardet.

Tim Tebow hit the first game-ending home run of his professional baseball career, lifting the Class A St. Lucie Mets over the visiting Daytona Tortugas, 5-4, in a seven-inning game.

Tebow, a Heisman Trophy-winning quarterback at Florida, went deep with one out against the Cincinnati Reds minor leaguer Austin Orewiler, hitting a first-pitch fastball over the fence in left field. Tebow has hit safely in 11 straight games and is batting .327 with St. Lucie.

CUBS ACQUIRE WHITE SOX PITCHER The Chicago Cubs, scuffling and inconsistent since winning the World Series, acquired Jose Quintana from the White Sox in a major trade between the crosstown rivals.

Trailing Milwaukee by five and a half games in the National League Central, the Cubs shook things up by acquiring Quintana, a 2016 All-Star. In exchange, the Cubs sent four prospects to the rebuilding White Sox: outfielder Eloy Jimenez, the right-hander Dylan Cease and infielders Matt Rose and Bryant Flete.

Quintana, a left-hander, is 4-8 with a 4.49 earned run average in 18 starts this season. He won a career-high 13 games last season with a 3.20 E.R.A. while making his first All-Star team.

YANKEES TRADE RELIEVER TO BREWERS The Milwaukee Brewers acquired the left-handed reliever Tyler Webb from the Yankees for the minor league first baseman Garrett Cooper. Webb had a 4.50 E.R.A. in seven appearances this year season with the Yankees without a decision. Cooper was batting .366 with 17 homers and 82 runs batted in at Class AAA.

The Washington Wizards matched the Nets’ $106 million, four-year offer sheet to keep forward Otto Porter. Porter, 24, who averaged career highs of 13.4 points and 6.4 rebounds last season, becomes Washington’s highest-paid player for the time being, ahead of guards Bradley Beal and John Wall.

NUGGETS SIGN MILLSAP The Denver Nuggets announced the signing of the four-time All-Star Paul Millsap. A highly coveted free agent, Millsap, a former Atlanta forward, agreed to a three-year deal worth $90 million.

Millsap, 32, gives the Nuggets a proven veteran to pair with the budding star Nikola Jokic. Millsap averaged a career-high 18.1 points last season with 7.7 rebounds and 3.7 assists.

The Rangers agreed to a three-year, entry-level contract with forward Lias Andersson, the No. 7 overall pick last month. The 18-year-old Andersson had nine goals and 10 assists in 42 games last season for HV71 of the Swedish Hockey League.

HURRICANES OWNER MAY SELL The owner of the Carolina Hurricanes, Peter Karmanos Jr., is considering selling the team. A Hurricanes spokesman, Mike Sundheim, said that Karmanos was deciding whether to accept an offer, and he declined to say who had made it. The offer could have come from the former Texas Rangers chief executive Chuck Greenberg. Bloomberg News and WRAL-TV in Raleigh reported that Greenberg is close to purchasing the team and will not move the Hurricanes. Bloomberg reported the sale price at roughly $500 million.

Charles Howell III and Ollie Schniederjans each shot eight-under 63 in perfect morning conditions to share the first-round lead in the John Deere Classic in Silvis, Ill.

Howell birdied seven his first nine holes and added a birdie on No. 7 at rain-softened TPC Deere Run. Schniederjans birdied five of his last eight holes in his lowest round of the PGA Tour.

FOWLER TWO BACK IN SCOTLAND Rickie Fowler, the 2015 champion, rolled in five birdies at Dundonald Links to shoot a five-under 67 in the first round of the Scottish Open. He was in a six-way tie for second place, two shots behind Mikko Ilonen of Finland.

MIZE LEADS SENIOR EVENT Larry Mize birdied half the holes and shot an eight-under 64 for a one-stroke lead after the opening round of the Senior Players Championship in Owings Mills, Md.

Quick goals from Gerson Mayen and Rodolfo Zelaya lifted El Salvador to a 2-0 win over Curaçao in the Concacaf Gold Cup in Denver. Zelaya was involved in both goals, delivering a crisp pass to Mayen, who freed himself in the middle of the box and kicked the ball past goaltender Eloy Room in the 21st minute.

Three minutes later, Zelaya managed to make enough space to chest down a long ball, dribble into the penalty area and fire.

The victory lifted El Salvador’s hopes of advancing from Group C after its opening 3-1 loss to Mexico.  (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

The two leading daily fantasy sports companies, DraftKings and FanDuel, scrapped their proposed merger about a month after federal regulators sued to block it. The two companies said they were moving forward separately in the best interests of their customers, employees and investors.

“It was the greatest game ever played.”

That’s Daniel Ring, a small town sports reporter, summing up a high school basketball game in St. Peter, Minn., on Thursday night.

You’re skeptical. But behold the drama of the regional championship between Waseca High School and Marshall High School and you will at least understand what he means.

With a berth in the state tournament at stake, the teenagers battled through three hours and four overtimes in a game highlighted by three buzzer-beaters that has electrified the southern Minnesota region and drawn national attention.

A local broadcaster called it “the three Miracles of St. Peter.”

“Miracle” No. 1: With Waseca up 72-69 and three seconds in regulation.

Everyone in the packed gym was standing as Cole Streich of the Waseca Bluejays stepped to the free-throw line with a chance to seal the win. He missed. The Marshall Tigers rebounded and raced toward their basket.

Trey Lance sent up a jumper from beyond the three. The buzzer sounded as the ball thudded awkwardly against the back of the rim, bounced on the front, then fell in.

The Tigers’ fans erupted.

Four minutes were added to the clock for overtime.

The Bluejays trailed by a narrow margin through much of the extra period. Down by two with seven seconds left on the clock, their star player, Nick Dufault, got bumped on a drive to the bucket. Two clutch free throws tied it up at 81, and it was on to double overtime.

Exhaustion started to set in. Both teams collected just six points apiece, and time expired at 87-87.

In triple overtime, the atmosphere was electric.

“Parents literally just pacing this gym right now,” Ring, the local reporter, said on Twitter.

With 30 seconds to go, the game was tied at 95. The Tigers’ Reece Winkelman took a pass along the baseline and put in a layup off the glass, earning a foul. The Marshall fans went wild.

Winkelman sank the free throw, putting the Tigers up 98-95. The game looked to finally be ending.

“Miracle” No. 2: With one second left and Waseca down by three.

With no timeouts left and one second on the clock, the Bluejays inbounded to Dufault who was in stride close to the baseline. The point guard took two steps and heaved a full-length prayer. The buzzer sounded.

Boom.

“Oh my god!”

Pandemonium broke out as the Bluejays sprinted in every direction, their supporters screaming and bouncing up and down in the bleachers.

A fourth overtime began, tied at 98. The Bluejays seemed to pull away, taking a 5-point lead, but it was cut to two in the final 50 seconds.

Then, the Tigers’ Andrew Hmielewski put in a reverse layup. Tie game.

“Miracle” No. 3: With score tied at 100; seven seconds in the fourth overtime; Bluejays’ ball.

The Bluejays called a timeout. The coach told his players to get the ball to Dufault, the team’s strongest scorer.

After the inbound though, the Tigers collapsed on him, leaving Streich, the shooting guard who missed a clutch free throw earlier in the game, wide open.

Streich received a cross-court pass and sprinted up the court. As the clock ticked down, 4, 3, 2, he pulled up from behind the three-point line, a fantasy scenario that Streich, like so many boys, had rehearsed countless times.

He had no doubt when the ball left his hands, he said later. He nailed it.

With that, the Bluejays secured their first berth in the state tournament since 2002.

As the stands erupted and the players celebrated on the court, their coach, Todd Dufault, who is Nick Dufault’s uncle, remained on the sideline, dazed and exhausted.

“I just kind of took it all in,” he said Friday morning. “It was a pretty surreal moment where you don’t really understand what’s happening.”

Since Thursday, the team has been inundated by messages from well-wishers across the country. ESPN’s SportsCenter featured the story on Friday.

Nick Dufault, who finished the game with 43 points, said his emotions have been a blur.

“It’s really hard to describe, honestly,” he said. “I don’t even know what I felt or what I’m feeling right now. I don’t even know what’s going on to be honest with you. It’s just so crazy.”

Coach Dufault said the memories of the game would last a lifetime for the players. But right now, it’s time to get ready for their first contest in the state tournament, five days away. Practice is at 3 p.m.

Emirates Team New Zealand sailed two near-perfect races on Bermuda’s Great Sound on Friday to take the lead in the America’s Cup qualifiers.

With the 26-year-old Peter Burling calmly steering the 50-foot catamaran, the Kiwis became the first crew to sail around the seven-leg course entirely on hydrofoils, with the hulls never touching the water until just after the finish line. That came in a 4-minute-6-second whitewashing of Groupama Team France, which was eliminated with one race to sail.

The Kiwis also beat SoftBank Team Japan by 51 seconds, staying on their foils 99.6 percent of the time.

Emirates Team New Zealand, the hard-luck loser in the 2013 America’s Cup, has 8 points, one more than the two-time defending champion Oracle Team USA. The two teams have a showdown Saturday, the final day of round robin two.

Jason Dufner holed out from the fairway for an eagle on his way to a second straight 65 that gave him a five-shot lead with a record-setting 36-hole total at the Memorial in Dublin, Ohio. Dufner’s 14-under-par total of 130 put him in front of Daniel Summerhays. Rickie Fowler was alone in third after a 66 for 136.

Dustin Johnson, the No. 1 player in the world and the defending United States Open champion, was unable to overcome a bad opening round and missed a cut for the second time this year. He followed a birdie-free six-over 78 with a 74 on Friday.  (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

CHAMPION LOOKS FOR ANOTHER TITLE Anna Nordqvist, the two-time defending champion, surged into the first-round lead at the ShopRite L.P.G.A. Classic in Galloway, N.J. Nordqvist birdied her first three holes en route to a seven-under 64 and a one-shot advantage over four golfers.

(REUTERS)

The father of Oklahoma City Thunder center Enes Kanter has been detained in Turkey, the country’s official news agency reported.

Mehmet Kanter was detained in his Istanbul home for an investigation undertaken by a prosecutor’s office in northwestern Turkey, according to the Anadolu news agency, and was being sent to Tekirdag Province for questioning.

Anadolu did not specify the scope of the investigation, but the Dogan news agency said it was part of an inquiry into connections to the United States-based cleric Fethullah Gulen. Mehmet Kanter has disowned his son for his public support of Gulen, whom the Turkish government has blamed for a failed coup attempt last summer.

Hector Trujillo, a former Guatemalan judge indicted in the global soccer corruption investigation, pleaded guilty in federal court in Brooklyn to wire fraud and conspiracy charges. American prosecutors had accused him of taking hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes for sports marketing contracts.

Trujillo was general secretary of Guatemala’s soccer federation when he was arrested in December 2015 in Port Canaveral, Fla. He admitted he had taken bribes and said he would not contest any sentence less than 57 months.

The second-round draft pick Joe Mixon has signed with the Cincinnati Bengals. Mixon, an Oklahoma running back, was suspended for his freshman season after he punched a woman, breaking bones in her face, and his selection by the Bengals provoked a public backlash.

CHIEFS RELEASE MACLIN The Kansas City Chiefs unexpectedly released wide receiver Jeremy Maclin, cutting ties with one of the highest-profile free-agent signings made by General Manager John Dorsey and Coach Andy Reid. Maclin was entering the third year of a $55 million, five-year contract, but his production had been declining.

RAVENS TIGHT END HURTS HIP AGAIN Baltimore Ravens tight end Dennis Pitta has reinjured his right hip, which has been surgically repaired twice. The injury occurred during an off-season practice session. Each time Pitta hurt the hip previously, the injury was considered career-ending. He led the Ravens last season with a career-high 86 receptions — the most by a tight end in franchise history.

VICK SIGNS WITH FLAG LEAGUE Michael Vick has signed with the American Flag Football League as both a player and an adviser for the seven-on-seven league. Vick, a 36-year-old former quarterback, is expected to take part in a demonstration game June 27 at Avaya Stadium in San Jose, Calif.

N.F.L. REJECTS NASCAR SPONSOR BID Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s ride in a Philadelphia Eagles car has been benched. Earnhardt was scheduled to race next week at Pocono Raceway in the No. 88 Chevrolet wrapped in Hendrick Motorsports colors and featuring the Eagles logo. But Hendrick Motorsports and the Eagles said the sponsorship was off because the N.F.L. does not allow team designs accompanying the promotion or presentation of another sport.

Jason Heyward hit a tiebreaking sacrifice fly in the eighth, and the Chicago Cubs ended a six-game losing streak with a 3-2 win at home over the St. Louis Cardinals.

Heyward also had a run-scoring double in the sixth and Kris Bryant homered for the Cubs. Dexter Fowler homered for St. Louis in his first game at Wrigley Field since he signed with the Cardinals in the off-season. Fowler received his World Series ring during a pregame ceremony.

ROYALS’ VARGAS BLANKS INDIANS Jason Vargas (7-3) threw his first shutout in nearly three years, outdueling his Royals rival Josh Tomlin and sending Kansas City to a 4-0 home victory over the Cleveland Indians.

EARLY HOMERS LIFT ORIOLES Seth Smith and Manny Machado hit first-inning home runs off Rick Porcello to help the Orioles beat the Boston Red Sox, 3-2, in Baltimore.

RANGERS DEMOTE EX-CLOSER Sam Dyson has been designated for assignment by the Texas Rangers after his latest loss. The Rangers made the move two days after Dyson gave up two homers and three runs in the 10th inning of a loss to Tampa Bay. It was the sixth loss of the season for Dyson, who was removed from the closer role in early May.