WASHINGTON — President Trump began his first Thanksgiving vacation in office with an early-morning Twitter rage in which he again vented about some of his favorite targets: sports figures he thinks have defied him.

The president called LaVar Ball, the father of one of three U.C.L.A. players arrested in China for shoplifting, a “poor man’s version of Don King,” the black sports promoter. He also called Mr. Ball an “ungrateful fool!” and insisted that “IT WAS ME” who deserved more thanks for rescuing Mr. Ball’s son from the Chinese authorities.

Mr. Trump followed the angry rant toward Mr. Ball, who is African-American, with a return to his monthslong demand for football players to be more respectful while the national anthem is played — an issue that has strong support among some Americans. On the idea of asking players to stay in locker rooms during the anthem, Mr. Trump tweeted: “That’s almost as bad as kneeling!”

Together, the posts were a reprise of Mr. Trump’s personal attacks against sports figures — many of them African-American — for what he judges to be poor behavior on their part and a failure to demonstrate enough deference to others.

White House officials deny that the president is focused on race when he comments about sports and athletes. But to historians and black activists, the tweets are clear evidence of an attempt by the president to send a message of solidarity to many supporters.

“President Trump appears to have a peculiar overfascination with African-American athletes and a negative fascination,” said Douglas A. Blackmon, the author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning book “Slavery By Another Name” and the host of “American Forum,” a weekly show produced by the University of Virginia’s Miller Center.

Twitter has long been the president’s preferred method for directing his outrage at individuals, and those of all races have been his targets, including Hillary Clinton; James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director; and Khizr Khan, the Pakistani father of a fallen American soldier.

But Mary Frances Berry, who is African-American and who served as the chairwoman of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, said that Mr. Trump’s particular desire during his first year in office to lash out at African-American sports figures was hard to ignore.

“It just reinforces a theme that’s already on their mind,” Ms. Berry, now a professor of history at the University of Pennsylvania, said of the president’s tweets. “It’s tailor-made for him to spout off and reinforce his base.”

In addition to N.F.L. players and Mr. Ball, Mr. Trump has in the past tweeted angrily at other African-American athletes and broadcasters, including Stephen Curry, the star basketball player for the Golden State Warriors, and Jemele Hill, a sports journalist who is a host of ESPN’s flagship “SportsCenter.”

In the case of the N.F.L. players, Mr. Trump has played to the beliefs of his most conservative supporters by openly deriding Colin Kaepernick, the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback who last season kicked off the idea of sideline protests by kneeling.

Speaking to an adoring, and mostly white, crowd in Huntsville, Ala., in September, Mr. Trump referenced the actions of football players like Mr. Kaepernick who knelt during the national anthem and said he would love to see an N.F.L. owner say, “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now.”

On Wednesday, the president kicked off the first day of a five-day visit to his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, Fla., by focusing his ire on Mr. Ball, the outspoken father of the U.C.L.A. basketball player LiAngelo Ball, who, along with his teammates Cody Riley and Jalen Hill, was released from Chinese custody after Mr. Trump intervened.

Mr. Ball stoked the confrontation with the president this week, refusing on CNN to thank Mr. Trump for his assistance and saying that “I don’t have to say, to go around saying thank you to everybody.”

That interview appears to have prompted the angry response from Mr. Trump. He insisted that he was the one who rescued Mr. Ball’s son, and he chided Mr. Ball for refusing to give Mr. Trump the due he felt he deserved.

“LaVar, you could have spent the next 5 to 10 years during Thanksgiving with your son in China, but no NBA contract to support you,” Mr. Trump wrote, referring to another of Mr. Ball’s sons, who plays professional basketball. “But remember LaVar, shoplifting is NOT a little thing. It’s a really big deal, especially in China. Ungrateful fool!”

Mr. Trump has repeatedly denied that his criticism of kneeling is aimed at African-American players. “The issue of kneeling has nothing to do with race,” he tweeted in September. And White House officials have said the president’s tweets are about patriotism.

“This isn’t an us-versus them. This should be something that brings our country together,” Sarah Huckabee Sanders, the White House press secretary, told reporters in the days after Mr. Trump first raised the issue. “All Americans should be proud to stand up, salute that flag, salute that anthem and be part of that process.”

Polls suggest that many agree with Mr. Trump. One taken in September found that 49 percent of Americans agreed with the president that it was wrong for football players to kneel during the national anthem to express a political opinion, compared with 43 percent who said they were right to do so.

In some ways, Mr. Ball and Mr. Trump are made for each other: two publicity-seeking individuals who rarely shy away from a good verbal fight.

It was the success of Mr. Ball’s eldest son, Lonzo, as U.C.L.A.’s freshman point guard last season that gave Mr. Ball a platform to build a brand. Since then, he has often let loose a series of attention-grabbing statements, including once claiming that — in his prime — he could have beaten Michael Jordan one-on-one.

But some of Mr. Trump’s critics say the president’s attack on Mr. Ball was about more than just chest-thumping between the two men. They say it echoes what they view as an obsession by Mr. Trump on sports figures who are black.

Harry Edwards, a civil rights activist and professor emeritus at the University of California, Berkeley, said that Mr. Trump understood that attacking black athletes — who are among the most popular figures in African-American communities — sent a powerful signal to some of his most fervent voters.

“All of these attacks resonate with a base that have some severe perspectives on African-American equality and justice,” he said. “To attack African-American athletes is really a way of sending that message that these are others.”

Mr. Trump’s decision on Wednesday to revisit the issue of football players who kneel at games appeared to have been set off by a Washington Post article that said that the league was considering a policy change under which players would stay in the locker room during the playing of the anthem. A league official said Wednesday that the idea was not currently under consideration.

Mr. Trump has excoriated the N.F.L. for allowing players to kneel, which he sees as disrespecting the American flag. In his tweet on Wednesday, the president criticized Roger Goodell, the longtime leader of the football league, asking “when will the highly paid Commissioner finally get tough and smart? This issue is killing your league!”

Mr. Blackmon said Mr. Trump’s focus on the actions of the players suggested that he took a particular affront when his expectations of their behavior was not met.

“This consistent pattern — African-Americans who stand up in a sense to him, who do not seem to be sufficiently compliant — seem to draw particular ire,” Mr. Blackmon said.

When the Cleveland Cavaliers beat a key rival, the Wizards, in Washington in overtime on Monday night, they tightened their grip on the Eastern Conference. And with the Golden State Warriors continuing to fly high in the West, a rematch of last year’s N.B.A. finals feels more and more inevitable.

The Cavaliers are 35-15, two and a half games ahead of their nearest rival, the Celtics. The 43-8 Warriors, although they are behind last year’s absurd pace, are still four games ahead of the Spurs. Those margins are about the same as last year on this date, when one team was two games up and the other three and a half.

The news media this season has also been confident about a Cavaliers-Warriors showdown in June. Before the season, 13 of 15 experts polled by NBA.com picked a Cavaliers-Warriors finals. (The other two picked the Cavaliers to face the Spurs or the Clippers.) So did all three of The New York Times’s prognosticators.

In December, the statistical-minded site FiveThirtyEight.com, citing the teams’ youth, wrote the headline “The Cavs and Warriors Might Be Doing This Finals Thing for a Long Time.” Fox Sports suggested that only a “cataclysmic event” could derail the matchup.

Bookmakers now have both teams as comfortable favorites to make the finals: Ladbrokes has the Cavaliers’ odds at 4-11 and the Warriors’ at 3-10. Those may seem like prohibitive odds, but factoring in the bookmakers’ margin, they translate to only about 61 percent and 65 percent chances — or about 40 percent that both teams will advance.

And although the expected finals matchup came through last year, it was not always easy. The Cavaliers advanced by winning their series by 4-0, 4-0 and 4-2, but the Warriors got all they could handle from the third-seeded Thunder and had to rally from a 3-1 series deficit to advance, with the final three games each decided by fewer than 10 points.

The challenges of the N.B.A. playoffs mean that No. 1 versus No. 1 matchups are far from a given, happening only twice since the turn of the century: Celtics-Lakers in 2008 and Lakers-Pacers in 2000.

The recent Cavaliers-Warriors dominance harks back to two eras. The Bulls’ three consecutive titles from 1996 to 1998 all came in 1 vs. 1 matchups (against the Sonics and twice against the Jazz). And in the mid-1980s, the Celtics-Lakers rivalry produced 1 vs. 1 finals in 1984, 1985 and 1987.

In all, a little less than a third of seasons since the N.B.A.-A.B.A. merger have ended with 1 vs. 1 finals (13 in 40 years).

In contrast, the more unpredictable N.H.L. playoffs have given us a 6-8 matchup (Devils-Kings, 2012) more recently than a 1-1 (the last was Avalanche-Devils, in 2001).

The Cavaliers and the Warriors have played their two regular-season games this season: The Cavaliers won by 1 on Dec. 25, and the Warriors won by 35 three weeks later. Most fans and pundits have penciled in four to seven more games between the teams in the spring.

On Monday night, when Kevin Love heaved a floor-length pass and LeBron James banked in an improbable 3-pointer to force overtime, it seemed still more evidence that the Cavaliers and the Warriors were destined to meet.

But it might not take a cataclysmic event, just a reasonable upset, to derail the dream matchup.

At Duke, “indefinitely” apparently means “one game.”

Grayson Allen, the basketball team’s star guard, was suspended indefinitely after tripping an opponent who was driving to the basket in a game against Elon on Dec. 21. It was his third offense, after tripping players from Louisville and Florida State last season.

After the most recent trip, for which he received a technical foul, Allen threw a fit on the sideline, pounding his fist and shouting. Coach Mike Krzyzewski announced the suspension the next day, and Allen was later stripped of his team captaincy.

Allen sat out a game at Virginia Tech on New Year’s Eve, Duke’s Atlantic Coast Conference opener. Duke lost, 89-75. It was only Duke’s second loss of the season.

Allen’s suspension was duly ended, and he returned to the starting lineup Wednesday night against Georgia Tech. He scored 15 points and had a game-leading seven assists as Duke romped, 110-57.

“I think it’s appropriate, and I think the things that we’ve done are appropriate,” Krzyzewski told ESPN. “There are things that you see or the public see, and there are things that you all don’t see and shouldn’t see or shouldn’t be talked about, and they’re called teachings. You don’t need to teach out in the public all the time.”

Allen told The Associated Press after the game: “He ultimately felt that I was ready to come back, and I felt good coming back. And so I accept all the discipline that came my way, and I know that it was my fault.”

The reaction from most non-Duke fans to Allen’s quick return was strongly negative. Fox Sports ran a commentary with the headline “What a Joke!”

Even Dick Vitale, who often sides with well-known coaches, said he was surprised by the quick return.

Duke, of course, was under no obligation to suspend Allen at all, and there was no clear precedent violated by the team. Certainly, general antipathy toward Duke contributed to the reaction.

Allen is part of a long line of Duke players hated by college basketball fans. Christian Laettner, J. J. Redick, Shane Battier and others have worn that mantle over the years. Last month, Sports on Earth rated Allen the most hated of them all.

Allen, a junior from Jacksonville, Fla., has also gotten attention for looking like the former presidential candidate Ted Cruz. Or maybe the cartoon character Doug, or George McFly from the “Back to the Future” films.

Whoever he looks like, Allen is a crucial part of the team, scoring 16 points a game and leading Duke in assists.

His leadership will be vital in the days ahead as the team plays through the tough A.C.C. instead of against teams like Marist, Grand Canyon University and Appalachian State. And it will do so without Krzyzewski for up to a month. The coach will have lower back surgery this week and take a leave of absence. His assistant Jeff Capel will fill in.

Krzyzewski did not make the N.C.A.A. tournament in his first three seasons at Duke. But since then, he has done so in 32 of 33 seasons and won five national championships. The only season in that run in which Duke missed the tournament was 1994-95, when Krzyzewski missed the bulk of the season with back problems.

Duke, now 13-2, is No. 8 in the Associated Press poll. Even without Krzyzewski for a time, the Blue Devils look to be contenders again. It seems clear, though, that they need Allen. It also seems clear that he will be playing.