MINNEAPOLIS — Philadelphia is a grand old city with a grand old football tradition defined not by trophies hoisted but the cocktail of emotions — nihilistic despair tinged with unfounded confidence — produced by its beloved Eagles coming so close, so many times.

The last 57 years had passed without a championship. It was never Ron Jaworski’s turn or Randall Cunningham’s or Donovan McNabb’s. It was always something — always.

The paradigm shifted Sunday, when a backup quarterback who nearly retired two years ago and who had not taken a snap with the first-team offense until two months ago gave Philadelphia its first Super Bowl title at the expense of the N.F.L.’s enduring dynasty.

For the rest of his life, Nick Foles will be hailed as the savior who matched a resplendent Tom Brady and authored a victory against the New England Patriots for Philadelphia’s first football championship since 1960.

The final score — 41-33 — will lodge deep into the memory banks of a frenzied pro-Eagles crowd at U.S. Bank Stadium and the millions of delirious fans across the Delaware Valley, who will belt it out at work or family gatherings or watering holes as calculable proof that, yes, the Eagles did, in fact, win the Super Bowl.

It was Philadelphia’s second major sports championship since 1983, after the Phillies’ World Series victory in 2008. The last time the Eagles earned an N.F.L. championship, in the pre-Super Bowl era, they also conquered an iconic coach in Vince Lombardi and a Hall of Fame quarterback in Bart Starr, but that win came before Green Bay’s reign of dominance. In Brady and Bill Belichick, bidding for their sixth title together, these Eagles outdueled the N.F.L.’s premier comeback artists to avenge a defeat from their last Super Bowl meeting 13 years ago.

Before that game, Belichick inspired his players by relaying the victory parade route — of the Eagles. If Philadelphia has not been reduced to rubble, that parade will finally meander down Broad Street this week.

What made it possible was an unforgettable performance by Foles, who has started for Philadelphia since its star quarterback Carson Wentz tore up his knee on Dec. 10 in Los Angeles. Foles earned the Super Bowl’s Most Valuable Player Award for catching one touchdown and throwing for three more, including an 11-yarder to Zach Ertz with 2 minutes 21 seconds remaining that put the Eagles ahead, 38-33. The aggressiveness of Coach Doug Pederson, a former Eagles quarterback, helped outsmart Belichick en route to winning a championship that Pederson’s mentor, Andy Reid, never could in Philadelphia. And an improbable late stand by a defense that yielded 613 yards — 505 passing by Brady — produced the most critical play at the most critical moment of the season.

The seconds feel like minutes, and the minutes feel like hours, when Brady jogs onto the field in the fourth quarter of a Super Bowl with his team trailing. After an entertaining first half featuring nearly 500 passing yards, a missed field goal, two shanked extra points, a bungled 2-point conversion, a Brady drop and a Foles touchdown reception, the second half contained multitudes — if not much defense. The Patriots, who had scored on their first three second-half possessions, now needed to go 75 yards in 2:21 for a dynasty-extending touchdown.

On second and 2 from the New England 33, Brady stepped up in the pocket and either never sensed defensive end Brandon Graham or thought he could evade him. Graham slapped the ball out, and it bounced into the arms of Derek Barnett, who recovered at the Patriots’ 31. Brady sat on the ground, his head down, as the Eagles danced around him.

After the Eagles parlayed that turnover into a field goal, Brady had one final chance, but his desperation heave from his own 49-yard line fell incomplete.

Long after the Patriots cleared the field, the theme song to “Rocky” blared over the stadium loudspeakers as fans hailed another cherished underdog from Philadelphia. In a measure of how General Manager Howie Roseman had revamped the Eagles’ roster, the first 85 points of the playoffs — and first 32 on Sunday — were scored by players who were not on the team last year.

Foremost was Foles, whose circuitous path from an Eagles draft pick in 2012 took him from an unfulfilling stint with the Rams to a season in Kansas City before Philadelphia made what proved to be a franchise-defining decision. The Eagles’ owner, Jeffrey Lurie, allocated a hefty contract — $11 million over two years — for a credible backup.

Without Wentz, the quarterback matchup Sunday seemed more lopsided than a three-legged table. Brady entered Sunday with more victories and touchdown passes in the playoffs than Foles has across his entire career, including the postseason. But Foles started developing timing with his receivers, Ertz said, during their bye week before their first playoff game against the Atlanta Falcons, when the Eagles conducted two practices with training-camp intensity: first-team offense against first-team defense.

Foles guided them past the Falcons, then flourished in a rout of the Minnesota Vikings. Philadelphia was a home underdog in both games. As Wentz looked on Sunday, Foles threw for 373 yards, directing the Eagles to points on eight of 10 possessions. They punted once.

“I think the big thing helped me was knowing that I didn’t have to be Superman,” Foles said. “I have amazing teammates, amazing coaches around me, and all I had to do was go play as hard as I could.”

Three rules govern the Eagles’ quarterback room: be on time, take great notes and play with swagger. In complying with that final edict, Foles does not strut or preen. He merely delivers what his position coach, John DeFilippo, calls mailbox throws — as in, the ball flies so purely and precisely that it could land in one.

Those mailboxes materialized at regular intervals Sunday: above Alshon Jeffery’s hands for a 34-yard first-quarter touchdown; in stride on a wheel route to Corey Clement that went for 55 yards in the second quarter; between two defenders for Clement’s 22-yard score in the third; a floater across the middle to Ertz in the fourth.

Those mailboxes also materialized for Brady, who commanded an offense that capitalizes on nameless, faceless positions — running backs who catch like receivers, tight ends who run like running backs and receivers who do both. Brady completed passes long and short and in between, to Chris Hogan and Rob Gronkowski and Rex Burkhead, gashing the Eagles for 276 yards by halftime and 404 through three quarters. In all, New England shredded Philadelphia for eight plays of at least 20 yards.

Asked last week whether Brady had any weaknesses to exploit, Eagles defensive coordinator Jim Schwartz chuckled. “Those people that have tried to find something they can exploit were sent home crying probably about 2001,” he said.

That is when the Patriots’ dynasty began, with the first of three titles in four seasons. It was also the last time, before Foles, that a backup quarterback won a Super Bowl. On Sunday, New England was again seeking a third title in four seasons against Philadelphia, but all empires must fall.

Brady will be 41 next season, but he said Sunday, “I don’t see why I wouldn’t be back.”

So will the Eagles, whose demeanor in the past week evoked the 2013 Seattle Seahawks, who knew how good they were — and couldn’t wait to prove as much against Peyton Manning and the Denver Broncos. Jeffery spoke last week in definite terms: when, not if, the Eagles won the Super Bowl. Of Brady, he said Sunday night, “I respect him, a great player, probably one of the greatest ever, but hey, he had not played the Eagles yet.”

Indeed, he had not. He had not faced the team that choreographed elaborate touchdown celebrations and railed against social injustice and donned goofy dog masks to embrace their underdog status while mocking it. Fulfilling Lurie’s demand for a coach with emotional intelligence, Pederson fomented an inclusive locker-room culture that empowered players to flaunt their personalities. Lurie knew Pederson not only as a brilliant offensive mind but as someone who taught Lurie’s son, Julian, how to throw a football, and who, from being pelted with batteries from impatient fans wishing McNabb to start as a rookie in 1999, had the requisite toughness to coach in Philadelphia.

“Wherever he was,” Lurie said of Pederson last week, “he was always the most genuine person in the room.”

Pederson also has a preternatural feel for optimizing his players. On Saturday night, he told his team that he had formulated an assertive game plan, with plenty of downfield throws and bold tactics.

Teams tend to shrink against New England, especially when leading. The Eagles? No chance.

All season they have flouted conventional wisdom by going for it in counterintuitive situations. Only one team, Green Bay, went for it more often on fourth down. After Duron Harmon halted a promising drive by intercepting Foles on a ball that caromed off Jeffery, and after the Patriots proceeded to march 90 yards to draw within 15-12 with about two minutes remaining in the first half, the Eagles regrouped and found themselves at the New England 1 with 38 seconds left.

Instead of attempting a field goal, Philadelphia called its inverse: a play called Philly Special. It resembles a version the Chicago Bears have run, and the Eagles have been practicing it for the last month: a direct snap to Clement, who pitched to Trey Burton — a former college quarterback who converted to tight end — who tossed to Foles, who became the first player to throw and catch a touchdown in a Super Bowl.

“That play we’ve been working on for the last couple of weeks, and just needed the right time, right opportunity, and the guys executed it brilliantly,” Pederson said.

Burton said of Pederson: “He’s got a lot of guts.”

The Eagles’ sideline turned into a mosh pit, with players and coaches jumping around, as it did a couple hours later, when their only sack of the game dislodged the ball from one of the greatest quarterbacks in history.

Last week center Jason Kelce remarked that he had seen that the Chinese Year of the Dog was coming up. “So maybe the odds are in our favor,” he quipped.

Indeed, they were. Despite losing their franchise quarterback, their All-Pro left tackle (Jason Peters), their most versatile running back (Darren Sproles) and their best special-teams player (Chris Maragos), the Eagles thwarted the mighty Patriots in the final game of the season.

Outside the Eagles’ locker room, a sign read: “An individual can make a difference. A team can make a miracle.” And that is what it must have felt like from Northern Liberties to Manayunk to Mantua, cathartic joy that will not dissipate for days, weeks, months. They will scale lightpoles and high-five strangers and chant “Fly Eagles Fly” until their voice disappears because after 57 years the improbable has happened.

The Eagles, finally, are Super Bowl champions.

THOUSAND OAKS, Calif. — Greg Zuerlein kicks for the Los Angeles Rams, but on a cloudless afternoon here last month, he played the role of a receiver practicing his sideline footwork. Standing a few feet inbounds, he waited for spirals to soar his way.

The first ball sailed beyond his grasp, but when the next arced toward him from about 40 yards away, Zuerlein merely extended his arms to secure it. For the next, he shuffled a few feet to his right to grab it. To catch another, he barely moved.

As the Rams’ three quarterbacks performed passing drills on an adjacent field, Johnny Hekker pointed toward Zuerlein and raised his arms in triumph.

Hekker had punted those balls. He easily could have thrown them.

Since entering the N.F.L. in 2012, Hekker, 27, has come to dominate as a punter like few others. He confounds opponents by marrying distance, direction and hang time to smash records, last year compiling what is regarded as the best punting season in N.F.L. history. He broke his own mark for net average, with 46.0 yards per kick, and dropped 51 punts inside the 20-yard line with only one touchback, a ratio that the Rams’ special-teams coach, John Fassel, described as “just stupid.”

Beyond his punting witchcraft, which all but neutralizes the opposition’s return game, Hekker is a former high school quarterback whose passing ability has emboldened his coaches to call fakes at any time, from anywhere on the field.

“Pound for pound, the best value I’ve gotten for any player has been Johnny Hekker,” Rams General Manager Les Snead said. “Not just that he’s a starting punter, which would have been a success. He’s a former quarterback who can run some legit fakes – and, oh, by the way, he’s a college free agent who might be the best punter to ever punt in the N.F.L.”

At 6-foot-5 and 241 pounds, Hekker is the biggest punter in the N.F.L., roughly the same size as Carolina Panthers quarterback Cam Newton, who stresses defenses with his pocket passing and open-field running. With every thunderous kick and successful fake, Hekker upends one perception — dual threats don’t always have to be quarterbacks — and fuels another: that the best player on the Rams (5-2) might not be quarterback Jared Goff or running back Todd Gurley or defensive menace Aaron Donald, but rather their punter.

No less a special-teams enthusiast than Patriots Coach Bill Belichick, while game-planning against the Rams last season, called Hekker “as good a player as I’ve ever seen at the position.” Punting eight times against New England, Hekker netted an average of 52.9 yards and deposited five punts inside the 20.

The importance of that statistic was amplified during the off-season when the Rams’ analytics department reviewed every N.F.L. game from 2016 and calculated the likelihood of a team’s scoring relative to where its drive began. Starting between its 20- and 29-yard lines, a team scored 32 percent of the time. But when it started between its 15 and 19, it scored 28.7 percent of the time, a rate that plunged to 23.3 percent between the 10 and 14.

According to the sports data service Sportradar, since the beginning of 2016, Hekker has hit a league-high 52.8 percent of his punts inside the 20.

“When you see the ball go up, you’re like, ‘yes, Johnny, please my dude,’” Rams defensive lineman Michael Brockers said. “Then when he pins somebody deep, and the ball hits at the 1 and goes out, I’m like: ‘Bro, that was dope. That. Was. Dope.’”

Ask Hekker about his dopeness, and he deflects it. He subscribes to the Zen concept of mushin, imparted to him by Fassel, which means a mind cleared of all distraction. Hekker has forgotten many of his punts, and when the long-snapper Jake McQuaide asks whether he liked a snap, he remembers only that he caught it.

“I would like to think I’m a top-10 guy in the league,” Hekker said, “but really I have a lot more work to do.”

During the spring, Hekker grew disgusted when he reviewed all 98 of his punts from last season and determined that many did not land where he wanted them. Again, this was the best punting season in history. Fassel said Hekker has yet to peak, which only reinforces Snead’s claim that he might be the best punter ever.

That claim is not drenched in hyperbole, and does not insinuate any bias from a man who in September tacked two more years onto the six-year, $18 million deal Hekker signed in 2014. John Turney, a prominent football historian, is working on a project about punting, and he said Hekker, three times a first-team All-Pro, has produced a statistically overpowering trail that places him on a trajectory to join Ray Guy as the only full-time punters in the Pro Football Hall of Fame.

“I don’t know what else you can ask of a specialist,” Turney said.

For the influence that Hekker wields on a game, his capacity for maximizing field position, diminishing scoring probabilities and running a fake, Turney considers Hekker the best special-teams player in the league.

Quite a compliment, but what if Hekker is even more than that? He does not pass like Tom Brady or run like Kareem Hunt or catch like Antonio Brown, or come close to playing nearly as many snaps as they do. Hekker, who also holds for Zuerlein, has taken only 31.9 percent of the Rams’ special-teams snaps.

But when Hekker jogs onto the field on fourth down, his mind uncluttered and his limbs loose, and with 1.2 seconds to catch the snap and rotate the ball and drill it toward a small target area some 45 yards away, he almost never makes mistakes discernible to the naked eye.

And because of that, maybe, just maybe, Hekker does his job better than anyone else in the league.

Sitting in his office, arms folded, brows furrowed, Snead pondered that possibility. He inherited a 2-14 team in February 2012, two and a half months before the draft. The Rams needed receivers and defensive linemen and cornerbacks.

They also needed a punter.

Fassel attended Hekker’s pro day at Oregon State and wanted him. Early in the seventh and final round, Snead mulled picking Hekker.

“The guy actually had a punt in college that went backward,” Snead remembered saying that day.

Figuring that the 31 other teams had seen it, he decided to take a linebacker.

Hekker’s friends remind him all the time of the punt, against Wisconsin during his senior season. It traveled minus-4 yards. It keeps him grounded, as does what happened after the season, when he went searching for an agent because none deemed him worth contacting.

After signing with the Rams, Hekker began watching film of punters he respected, an exercise that endures. He marveled at the technique used by Thomas Morstead of New Orleans, quiet and refined. He gaped at how purely Dustin Colquitt of Kansas City strikes the ball, especially in a venue as unforgiving as Arrowhead Stadium. He admired the misdirection deployed by Sam Koch of Baltimore, how he would show left, then crush the kick right.

“I revere these guys,” Hekker said. “I need their posters on my wall. They keep me humble. I watch them punt and I think I’ve got a long way to go.”

The craft has evolved since Sammy Baugh let ’em rip 75 years ago, Turney said, cycling through several phases until this current era, which rewards those few punters who can kick consistently with power and precision. The two most revealing indicators, Turney said, are net average (how far the ball travels minus return yardage or touchbacks) and the ratio of inside-the-20 punts to touchbacks. Hekker holds the career record in each, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. (Those statistics began being tracked in 1976.)

To sustain that excellence, Hekker relies on a catalog of punts. A sampling: the end-over-end one that swaps distance for control, the dastardly knuckler, the directional spiral and the famed banana, adapted from Australian rules football. Spinning sideways, the banana fooled Indianapolis returner Quan Bray in its regular-season debut, in Week 1, skidding at the 11 before helicoptering out of bounds at the 7.

Many punters mess with the banana in practice, but few have the confidence or audacity to try it in a game. Hekker’s next trick could be the punt he has been fiddling with: It spins as if kicked with his left foot.

“I don’t think Johnny’s afraid of anybody,” said Jeff Feagles, the N.F.L. career leader in punts. “I think they’re afraid of him.”

Sometimes they are afraid he won’t punt at all. By his own admission, Hekker was a quarterback who punted at Bothell High School in suburban Seattle. And the Rams capitalized on his passing talent immediately.

Against San Francisco as a rookie, Hekker completed a 21-yard pass from his own end zone. Then, with about five minutes left and the Rams trailing by 4 points, he connected on a 19-yarder that keyed a go-ahead scoring drive. In all, his 13 passes since 2012 – with eight completions, all for first downs or touchdowns – are 11 more than any other punter has attempted, according to Sportradar. (He has also passed for a 2-point conversion.)

Fassel said the Rams have called about 40 other fakes with Hekker that they checked out of at the line of scrimmage. His versatility vexes opposing coaches who every week struggle with how to set up a runback and guard against a fake. “We’ve been really vanilla against him,” said Brian Schneider, the Seahawks’ special-teams coach, whose team has been foiled by Hekker twice on fakes, after a September practice. “We don’t have much of a choice.”

Hekker developed that arm, and a fierce competitive streak, playing football with his four older brothers. His fear of losing motivated him across his childhood, when he would turn household chores – like carrying grocery bags into the house – into contests.

After high school, once he had committed to pursuing punting in college, Hekker learned fundamentals at a camp in Alabama run by Mike McCabe, a former all-American punter at Illinois State.

“He wasn’t very good,” McCabe said.

As a walk-on at Oregon State, Hekker beat out Ryan Allen (now the Patriots’ punter) as a freshman for the starting job. Throughout college, Hekker returned to Alabama to train with McCabe, who said he now learns from him.

On the practice field, competing against himself, Hekker is no less demanding. This season he is trying for three or fewer touchbacks (he has one so far) and for what he considers excellent direction on eight of every 10 punts. He aims for a narrow alleyway two or three yards from the sideline.

When their offense is laboring, the long-snapper McQuaide said, the Rams will issue Hekker a simple entreaty: Kick it as far as you can. They are as confident in their ability to cover the punt as they are in Hekker’s aptitude for punting it where it needs to go.

One such moment occurred in Week 10 last season at the Jets, when Hekker kicked from his 17-yard line. His objective was to gain 83 yards of the field, pinning the Jets inside the 1. Perched in the Rams’ special-teams room on a recent morning, Hekker cued up that punt.

From the angle of his body, he appeared to be kicking toward the right sideline. But, Hekker explained, he torqued his hips and cranked a spiral left that carried and carried and carried, 78 yards in all, before falling at the Jets’ 5 into the arms of returner Jalin Marshall, who reached the 15.

Among active punters with at least 50 career kicks, Hekker has yielded the fewest yards per return, according to Sportradar, though he assigns much of the credit to teammates for downing his punts and forcing fair catches. Sportradar also furnishes some teams an advanced metric called Percentage of Field Covered, which gauges a punter’s value by measuring how much field position his team gains based on opportunity.

That punt against the Jets reaped a value of 81.9 percent, gaining 68 of 83 yards. For his career, Hekker’s punts have a value of 63.4 percent, best in the N.F.L. since 2000, when Sportradar started collecting data.

But in a testament to the Rams’ overall improvement, Hekker’s 25 punts are his fewest through seven games across his career.

He will accept more victories for a less strenuous workday, for fewer opportunities to prove what Snead has come to believe.

“Take football out of it,” he said. “Johnny does his job as well as whoever just won the Nobel Prize in economics, you know what I mean? That guy might make more of an impact for more people on the planet, but Johnny does his job as good as those people do. It just happens to be punting.”

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — In the expansive Gillette Stadium parking lot, with sausages sizzling on the grill and beers icing in the cooler, football fans here resented the intrusion of politics into their Sunday afternoon tailgating traditions.

“Football is such an escape, no one should be politicizing it,” said Laurie Flynn, 28, who works in marketing in Boston. Her family and friends, who arrived at 7:30 in the morning for the 1 p.m. kickoff of the Patriots’ game, started with mimosas as they set up their grill and put out the Buffalo chicken dip.

And yet President Trump’s directives — if players take a knee during the national anthem, he said, the N.F.L. owners should fire them and fans should walk out — had done just that.

“Why is the president commenting on the N.F.L.?” Ms. Flynn asked. “Doesn’t he have bigger things to think about? This is unfair to the fans. I didn’t come here to deal with this.”

At football stadiums across the country, fans seemed united in their irritation that their sacrosanct leisure hours had been hijacked by a raging, uncivil war that in their view should be confined on Sundays to the talk shows — so they could tune it out.

Still, the president’s message had reached the fans, here and elsewhere, and it got some families talking and other families not talking because of disagreements.

Many noted that in this country, players were lucky to be able to express whatever view they wanted. But drawing attention to police brutality and racial inequality by going down on one knee during the national anthem, they said, was inappropriate because it was disrespectful to the nation’s veterans who fought for that very freedom of expression.

Joe Barone, 27, an accountant from Rhode Island sitting under the shade of a tent with a 60-inch television, said “both sides are wrong.” The players should respect the flag, he said, but Mr. Trump “shouldn’t have called the players what he did,” using the phrase “son of a bitch.”

“There are things wrong in this country, but there are better ways to show it,” Mr. Barone said. “The players’ message is not coming across clearly.”

Donna Murray, an office worker from Rhode Island who described herself as “old enough to vote,” said the players had not picked the most effective way to make their point.

“When I’m in Canada, I’ll stand for their national anthem,” she said. It’s not that she cares about Canada, per se, she said, but standing is the respectful thing to do. The players, however, had muddied the waters by mixing up politics in the incongruous setting of football, she said.

“If you want to protest, go somewhere else,” she said. “I think if they did it in a different platform, more people would listen.”

She herself had mixed feelings about the whole brouhaha. The players should “show respect for the people who fought for this country,” she said, but the president “went too far” in saying the players who kneel should be fired.

Many agreed that Mr. Trump had stepped over a line.

Mel Casa, 74, who owns a hair salon, and his son Robert, 52, who served in the Air Force and works with computers, had rolled out an American flag on their tailgate.

The father said he voted for Mr. Trump but regretted it because the president “is a bully and has no filter when he speaks.” And this time, he said, as he puffed on a big Dominican cigar, Mr. Trump had “really gone overboard.” He said it was ludicrous to expect that 70,000 people would walk out of Gillette Stadium if players went down on their knees.

Connor Bouvier, 13, an eighth grader from New Hampshire, said that players’ kneeling during the anthem was “disrespectful.” Asked whether he sided with the president on this issue, Connor said yes but he was “not as arrogant as he is.”

His grandfather Philippe Bouvier, 72, a retired pharmacist who did not vote for Mr. Trump, was not happy about the president’s blue comments about the players.

“It’s not proper talk from a leader,” Mr. Bouvier said. “The president of the United States shouldn’t have to be bleeped out.”

A group of three men, stealing some shade from someone else’s tent while their plates of fried shrimp, fried scallops and fried Twinkies baked in the sun, were deeply divided.

Derek Nelson, 31, a martial arts instructor from New Hampshire who said he voted for Hillary Clinton, applauded the players for “taking a stand for what they believe in,” and said that kneeling was a respectful act, done quietly and not interfering with anyone else’s rights.

His friend Jim Hatch, 50, a business owner, said that the players’ behavior was indefensible, though he defended their right to act however they wanted. “You have the right to do it all day long and that’s part of America,” he said, “and in other countries you’d get shot.”

But they agreed that the president was trying to shore up his conservative supporters. “Trump knows his base doesn’t like it,” Mr. Hatch said of the players’ kneeling. “He’s not stupid. He knows what works. That’s votes. That’s 100 percent votes.”

At other stadiums, most football fans wished the president had stayed out of this realm.

At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., home of the Jets, Greg Zaccaria, 61, from White Plains, said he was a Republican who voted for Mr. Trump but “this is a battle he doesn’t need to get into.”

Julie and Vin Santomero and their sons Will and Jack of Wilton, Conn., said they had discussed the protests during the drive to the game.

“These kids have no idea what the players are protesting,” Ms. Santomero said as the family grilled corn on the cob. But she said she did not like the protests. “It’s a football game,” she said. “They’re here to play the game. Maybe after they retire they can go into politics like a lot of them do.”

Her husband nodded.

“Maybe it’s not the proper forum,” he said. “Not that they’re right or wrong either way. Sports is meant to be a departure.”

A group of people playing beer pong nearby had also been talking about Mr. Trump’s comments on their way to the game. All of them supported the protests.

“They’re protesting because people are dying,” said Jesse Melendez, 29, of Dix Hills, N.Y. “People don’t get mad when people are shot or killed, but they’re getting mad because a football player is kneeling or raising a fist. The double standard is crazy.”

He said that African-Americans in particular were paying close attention to who was protesting and who was not. He said those who do not kneel would be seen as sellouts thinking only of securing their paychecks.

Je’anna Pulistar, 29 of Lindenhurst, N.Y., said, “I understand that the national anthem is important, but at the same time, what other time is there to stand up together for something you believe in?”

Colleen Channer, who was walking through the parking lot, said of Mr. Trump, “Can stupid get stupider?” She said the president should not be favoring one group of people over another. “He’s supposed to be neutral and he’s not.”

In Charlotte, at Bank of America Stadium, Keith Watson, who was tailgating with his family, thought Mr. Trump’s comments were just plain dumb. “He’s more about division than coming together,” he said.

Mr. Watson, who was in the military last year when Colin Kaepernick, then a San Francisco 49ers quarterback, first began kneeling as a protest, said he did not have a problem with it.

“As far as I’m concerned, that’s why I’m in the military, to give him the right to express himself any way he wants to, short of yelling ‘fire!’ in a crowded theater,” he said.

“Kneeling as a protest is unobtrusive, nonviolent,” he said. “It’s a silent protest. Silent but visual.”

Jay Kemp, a former Marine who was with his family at a fan fest near the Charlotte stadium, said he personally would not take a knee during the national anthem but said he fought for the right of anyone else to do so.

“I find it hard to swallow that the president would attack professional athletes for their freedom of speech, and a freedom that I spent 21 years protecting,” Mr. Kemp said. “They could be exercising their freedom of speech to promote hate or promote something else. But they’re doing it in a nonviolent fashion and they’re exercising their right.”

Besides, he said, kneeling is not about disrespecting the country.

“It’s a protest against police brutality and racism,” he said. And it has inspired him to teach his son, who is 7, to stand up for what he believes is right.

Kevin Mac learned in a phone call outside the stadium in Charlotte that the entire Pittsburgh Steelers team had decided to wait until the national anthem was over before taking the field in Chicago. Originally from Pittsburgh, Mr. Mac angrily told his wife, Kelly, that he would no longer support the Steelers — and she said she would give up her season tickets to Panthers games if any players knelt.

“I’m just blown away,” she said. “If you can’t respect our country with the national anthem, then you need to go.” She said it was a terrible example to set for children.

In Detroit, near Ford Field, where the Hatch family was tailgating, Morgan Hatch, 40, said his 12-year-old twins, Alex and Jackson, were following the controversy closer than he was.

“I will respect the players more if they do kneel, because they are doing what they feel is right to do,” Alex said.

Jackson agreed, saying the players were simply exercising their rights. “It might look weird or something during the national anthem, but that should be O.K.,” he said.

Tailgating nearby was Carlos Neal, 48, who was tending to multiple grills at two tents and a pop-up camper.

He said he always kneels in protest during the national anthem, has been doing it “for a while” and would do it today as he watched the Lions’ game on television in a parking lot.

“I am with the players all the way,” he said. “I respect every single one of them if they protest, and even if they don’t, I still respect them for their rights.”

As for the president, he added: “Trump’s has got to lay off that Instagram and Twitter crack, put his phone down and stop all this nonsense. Somebody needs to take that phone away from him. We got real problems going on in this world, and this is what he wants to do? No sir.”