Chris Borland shocked the sports world when he left the N.F.L. after his rookie season, saying the long-term health risks of playing football were not worth it.

Now, Borland is going further, appearing in a public service announcement that denounces the N.F.L. for hiding the risks of catastrophic brain damage.

In the announcement, Borland discusses his decision to leave the N.F.L., and how the league spent years trying to play down and discredit research on chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease known as C.T.E. that is linked to repeated head trauma.

In the one-minute spot, which is now online and will be shown on various television channels, Borland said that the league’s efforts to suppress the risks of the disease “is especially sad when you think about the fact that there are 5-year-old kids out there playing tackle football.”

N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell has said repeatedly that dozens of rules changes have made the game of football safer than ever before. The league has also committed to spending tens of millions of dollars to develop safer equipment and to pay for research into the effects of playing the game.

The N.F.L. did not immediately return a call for comment.

Borland, who played one standout season as a linebacker with the San Francisco 49ers before abruptly leaving the league, is working with the Union of Concerned Scientists, an activist group of independent scientists who cite the N.F.L. in its Disinformation Playbook, a new website exposing the ways that some companies and trade associations “sideline science.”

According to the group, the N.F.L. attacked the facts about concussions and C.T.E. similar to the ways the tobacco industry, fossil fuel companies and the makers of sugary sodas try to obscure health consequences of their products.

“The costs are high, and the N.F.L. has made a lot of money while passing those costs on to the players, their families and their communities. We need to stop this from continuing — in football and in other industries — by standing up for science,” Borland said in the public service announcement.

MINNEAPOLIS — As knowledge about head trauma and concussions has increased over the past decade, a growing number of parents have warned their children about the perils of football. Icons of the sport like Bo Jackson have said they would not have played had they known what we know now, while others have said they would actively discourage their children and grandchildren from playing.

Yet here at the home of Sunday’s Super Bowl, the N.F.L. has found a way around those warnings. The league is speaking to children directly.

On Wednesday, after two hours of sprinting around the booths at a Super Bowl Experience sponsored by the cable network Nickelodeon, about 2,500 children made their way to the N.F.L. Play 60 Field — everything at the Experience has a branded name — for a musical performance by JoJo Siwa.

You might not know Siwa, but your child certainly does. A YouTube star and participant on the reality show “Dance Moms,” Siwa, 14, is a familiar face to the millions who watch her videos and sing along to her songs.

During a break in her performance on Wednesday, she led the crowd in singing “Happy Birthday” to Play 60 — the N.F.L. youth fitness campaign that began late in 2007. After she left, Keith McMaster, the master of ceremonies, took the stage and asked for “a big round of applause for the N.F.L. and JoJo Siwa.”

Siwa was performing at the behest of Nickelodeon, the Viacom-owned television network known for hit children’s shows like “PAW Patrol” and “SpongeBob SquarePants.” While a number of N.F.L. sponsors have created a prominent presence for themselves at the Super Bowl, Nickelodeon is by far the largest company that interacts primarily with children.

“This is probably physically the biggest thing we do,” Cyma Zarghami, the president of Nickelodeon, said.

Over the past five or six years, Nickelodeon has been “reinvesting in the relationship that kids have to sports,” Zarghami said. And while Nickelodeon has partnerships with most of the country’s biggest leagues and has a presence at Nascar races, the N.B.A. All-Star Game and tennis’s United States Open, it has no bigger sports partner than the N.F.L.

Research conducted by the league has found that most avid N.F.L. fans became attached to the sport in elementary school. With participation rates in youth football declining and parents ever more aware of the risks of head trauma from playing the sport, the N.F.L. needed new ways to reach young people. A deep partnership with the biggest children’s television network was an obvious strategy. And Nickelodeon has been eager to help. They have been partners since 2010.

“As the biggest spectator sport, everybody is looking at sort of how they cultivate the next generation of fans,” Zarghami said. “We are a great entree into that.”

“Kids love Nickelodeon,” Kamran Mumtaz, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said in an email. “Kids love sports. Kids love the Super Bowl. And the Super Bowl is all about larger than life sports entertainment. Together, we can bring the excitement of Super Bowl week to kids and parents in a fun and unique way.”

At Wednesday’s performance, parents, teachers and chaperones sat in bleachers or stood in clusters of two or three as their charges crowded the stage to be near Siwa. They roared when McMaster, also known as Coach Keith, said they were being filmed and might appear on Nickelodeon on Sunday, as Siwa’s performance would be the “halftime show” for Nickelodeon’s “Superstar Slime Showdown at Super Bowl.”

Upstairs at the Super Bowl Experience, the N.F.L.-themed carnival and trade show that pops up at the game every year, league partners like Bridgestone, Castrol and FedEx have booths with football-themed activities. But even inside a cavernous downtown convention center, the sight of Nickelodeon’s immediately recognizable bright orange and slime green colors made the network’s booth the most attractive to the children in attendance.

As helpers got two young volunteers settled in plastic ponchos and into a set of clear glass booths — buckets hanging ominously overhead, like age-appropriate swords of Damocles — a man led dozens of children in a modified version of the Minnesota Vikings’ Skol chant.

“Slime! Slime! Slime! Slime!”

Slimed they were.

The day’s larger question went unanswered. As the N.F.L. is mired in a concussion crisis, has dealt with high-profile cases of domestic violence and was in the middle of a political tug of war this season, why does Nickelodeon associate with the league?

“We think it is wrong to target children in this way,” said Josh Golin, the executive director of the Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood. In 2015, the organization released a report criticizing the N.F.L.’s efforts to market itself to children.

To Golin, one of the biggest offenders was “NFL Rush Zone,” a bizarre, animated show produced by Nickelodeon and the N.F.L. that combined football and superheroes. “Many children’s television shows are trying to sell a product,” he said, “but this is so blatant that it is just an ad for the N.F.L.”

Zarghami, the Nickelodeon president, has heard criticism of the network’s relationship with the N.F.L. before. “Look, as a mother, it’s tough, it’s a tough sport,” she said. But what children see on Nickelodeon are players getting slimed and interacting with other kids, humanizing them.

“The actual sport doesn’t ever actually get to Nickelodeon,” she said.

As a children’s channel, Nickelodeon is at the forefront of numerous trends, like the movement from traditional television onto digital platforms and the rise of YouTube stars like Siwa. But while observers have predicted for decades that other sports will eventually overtake the N.F.L. — and Zarghami said Nickelodeon would like to be more involved with soccer and women’s sports — football is still the most popular sport in the country, even among children.

And if something is popular, she said, Nickelodeon feels it has to be there. “Another place where kids have a lot of passion is the music business,” she said. “That comes with its pros and cons, too.”

“We have to be connected to what kids care about,” she added, “and that’s really what we are about.”

CANTON, Ohio — A makeover at the Pro Football Hall of Fame is turning an underdeveloped shrine to the heroes of America’s favorite sport into a $750 million mixed-use center of entertainment, residences, offices, research and health care.

“This new project is a life-changer for this city,” said Fonda Williams, the deputy mayor and director of economic development.

The project is the largest development in Canton’s history, city leaders say. The National Football League started in Canton in 1920 and has grown into a multibillion-dollar sports league, but the Pro Football Hall of Fame lurked at the edge of Canton’s civic attention for most of the 54 years since it was founded.

The museum, with its distinctive football-shaped rotunda, was hemmed in by Interstate 77 on one side and a neighborhood of middle-class homes on the other. The 118,000-square-foot museum has 200,000 to 300,000 visitors annually. But other than the annual August induction ceremony and a nationally televised preseason game at an adjoining field, the Hall of Fame was often overlooked by the elected and civic leaders of this faded Rust Belt city.

“We’ve been a dying community for 20, 30 years,” said Mr. Williams, who was raised in the city. “If you look at how our population declined, we’ve been on a slow morphine drip, if you will. We had a great gem, the Hall of Fame, and we were not using it to brand the city in any way.”

Canton’s perspective changed with two developments: a transition in the hall’s presidency in 2014, and an unscheduled visit by a California-based builder who is active in redeveloping Midwest cities. In January 2014, three days after he took office as the Hall of Fame’s president and chief executive, David Baker met Stuart Lichter, the president and founder of the Industrial Realty Group. Among Mr. Lichter’s Ohio developments is East End, in neighboring Akron, which includes a 639,000-square-foot, seven-story, $160 million headquarters for the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company.

Mr. Lichter pitched Mr. Baker on a big idea: an N.F.L. theme park.

“I said, football is unique,” Mr. Lichter recalled. “It is the biggest sport in the country. You have the Hall of Fame here. What would happen if we created a permanent N.F.L.-like experience here?”

Mr. Lichter wanted to expand the Hall of Fame with amenities like a youth field complex, a hotel, retail shops, a conference center and entertainment. “Wouldn’t that be a cool thing?” he said. “It would be a place where all the football fans in the country can go 365 days a year.”

Mr. Baker, a former mayor of Irvine, Calif., and a former team owner and commissioner of the Arena Football League, liked what he heard. He is also the managing partner for Union Village, a $1.2 billion, 170-acre integrated senior care community under construction in Henderson, Nev., so he added the research, education and long-term care elements of Union Village to the project.

The ambitious project is in a new category of sports-focused, mixed-use developments that are appearing around the country. One notable example is the 75-acre Arena District in Columbus, Ohio, constructed around a National Hockey League arena that includes 300,000 square feet of retail space, 1.5 million square feet of commercial space and 800 residential apartments.

The concept has been successful elsewhere, too. The $1 billion mixed-use Downtown Commons in Sacramento, Calif., includes a National Basketball Association arena that opened last year. The $1.5 billion, 91-acre Ford Center at the Star is a mixed-use development in Frisco, Tex., that incorporates the headquarters and practice facility for the Dallas Cowboys. The City of Champions, a $3.8 billion, 298-acre mixed-use development is under construction in Inglewood, Calif., includes a new N.F.L. stadium, which will be shared by the Los Angeles Rams and the Los Angeles Chargers.

Last year, Mr. Baker and his staff persuaded Johnson Controls, the international industrial technology company, to pay more than $100 million for naming rights. With the Johnson Controls Hall of Fame Village, the Hall of Fame’s campus will double to 200 acres and include a number of features that are consistent with other sports-focused mixed-use projects.

The $155 million Tom Benson Hall of Fame Stadium, completed this month, holds 23,000 people and has an 80,000-square-foot skydeck and suites. Construction started this year on a $115 million, 243-room hotel that encompasses a 25,000-square-foot conference center and 65,600 square feet of retail space. Four of eight state-of-the-art playing fields are finished in the National Youth Football and Sports Complex.

A $58 million Hall of Fame Promenade, a $38 million Center for Excellence and a $77 million Performance Center will start construction soon. The promenade consists of 50,500 square feet of retail space plus 68 residential units. The Performance Center, which will be used for conventions and concerts, converts to a 5,500-seat indoor football arena and has an outdoor practice field.

“This is a campus that has so many different kinds of buildings,” said Kim Metcalf-Kupres, the chief marketing officer at Johnson Controls and a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame board. “It gives us an immersive customer experience.”

The Hall of Fame and Industrial Realty Group also are adding several novel entertainment, research and health dimensions to the village. For instance, the $182 million Hall of Fame Experience, a 240,000-square-foot building attached to a water park, uses advanced video, audio and digital technology to envelop visitors in holographic sight and sound as a quarterback or running back on the field. Johnson Controls and Immersive Artistry, an entertainment company based in Santa Monica, Calif., are providing much of the technology.

Another distinctive facet is the $35 million Player Care Center, a 26,000-square-foot surgical center with a 20-room behavioral sciences and treatment unit. The center also will include Legends Landing, a 144-bed independent, assisted-living and memory-care facility. And the Center for Excellence will combine 155,000 square feet of office space with 4,200 square feet of retail space.

Mr. Baker said that he expected that the medical facilities and the Center for Excellence would become the focus of education and research to study rule changes, new equipment and game techniques that improve the safety of football, and to invent new practices for responding to injuries.

“We know it’s more challenging,” Mr. Baker said. “There is more concern about the game. We want to address that here.”

He added that the project would try to address the character and the values of the game.

“When you huddle up and carry the ball, it doesn’t matter what color you are or how much money your parents have or where you are from,” he said. “It’s the only game where every teammate matters on every play. That’s what we’re building here.”

Under a separate contract worth $20 million or more, Johnson Controls is tying together all of the project’s energy, communications, electrical, security and digital infrastructure in a network that it calls a “smart city.”

“It’s a living laboratory that shows our customers what all this technology means for them,” Ms. Metcalf-Kupres said.

One of the project’s potential impediments was land acquisition. Doubling the size of the hall’s campus required purchasing and demolishing roughly 135 homes along the western boundary that were within the jurisdiction of neighboring Plain Township, a bedroom community of 48,000 residents.

Mr. Baker and his staff helped to negotiate agreements that enabled the City of Canton to annex each parcel after demolition, but also allowed the township to continue receiving property tax revenues that gradually diminish over 12 years.

Mr. Baker also organized regular informational meetings and listening sessions with residents, and authorized payments for homes that were 30 percent to 40 percent above market value, according to Scott Haws, the chairman of the Plain Township Board of Trustees.

“There was no groundswell against the project,” Mr. Haws said. “People here understand what a big deal this is for our community. Values for property outside the village footprint are rising. In the grand scheme of things, it has gone relatively well.”

Television ratings for the N.F.L. have fallen 17 percent over the past two seasons. The league is embroiled in a continuing crisis over concussions, and youth participation rates are falling.

All of this suggests a difficult future for the sport, yet the N.F.L.’s most notorious competitor, Vince McMahon’s XFL, has a comeback in the works.

McMahon, the chairman and chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, announced on Thursday that he would take a second crack at professional football, with play scheduled to start in early 2020.

McMahon first tried to reimagine pro football 17 years ago. The old XFL was a joint venture between the World Wrestling Federation (W.W.E.’s former name) and NBC, which had lost rights to broadcast N.F.L. games.

Violence was amped up: An opening scramble replaced the coin toss and fair catches were banned. So was the sex appeal, with cheerleaders who were even more scantily clad than the ones in the N.F.L., and advertising that included innuendo about them.

“Where is my smash-mouth, wide-open football?” McMahon asked rhetorically at the news conference announcing plans for the original XFL “This will not be a league for pantywaists and sissies.”

After the league drew huge television ratings its first week, disorganization plagued the operation, and fans became disenchanted by the confusing, sloppy brand of football played by inferior players. The league collapsed after just one season, with NBC and the W.W.F. losing tens of millions of dollars. Four years later NBC paid $3 billion to get back into the N.F.L.

Now McMahon says he wants to reimagine the game. “Not reinvent,” he said in an interview last week. “It’s football. But you want to reimagine it.”

Other than the name, this version will have little in common with the old XFL, he said.

There will be no cheerleaders, McMahon said. Players with criminal records will not be welcome. Political statements, such as kneeling during the national anthem, will be prohibited.

President Trump, who has denounced N.F.L. players’ protesting racial injustice by refusing to stand during the anthem, has long been involved with the McMahons and W.W.E. Linda McMahon, Vince’s wife, was appointed by Trump to run the Small Business Administration.

Trump has hosted wrestling events at his properties and has been involved in the showmanship, once shaving McMahon’s head in the middle of a ring. Trump was also involved in an alternative professional league in the 1980s, owning the New Jersey Generals of the short-lived United States Football League.

But McMahon said that he had not consulted with Trump about the XFL, and that the ban on politics during games would extend to the president’s positions.

“Democrat, Republican, Independent, I don’t care, and no one should,” said McMahon. “We come to the field not to state what I am pro or against, that’s not why we’re there. We are there to play football.”

This XFL also won’t be affiliated with wrestling, at least not officially. McMahon has formed Alpha Entertainment to run the league with completely separate management. He recently sold off about $100 million in W.W.E. stock to fund it.

“I am very committed to this, and it’s going to take more than $100 million to do this league,” he said.

McMahon did not further estimate what amount of capital — including media rights fees, ticket sales and sponsorships — would be required to start the league. He said that he was not actively seeking other investors and that the league was already fully funded.

As for other details of the league, only the outline is currently visible. Eight teams — all owned by McMahon’s company — will compete in a 10-game regular season, likely on Sunday afternoons, he said. Four teams will make the playoffs, setting up semifinals and a championship game.

Active rosters will consist of 40 players, McMahon said, promising to pay them enough to play full time and to offer bonuses for wins. McMahon suggested that games would be much shorter and the rules simpler.

But he could not say where the teams would play, or specifically what media outlets might show the games.

McMahon’s plan has a decent shot at succeeding, said David Carter, a professor who runs the University of Southern California’s Sports Business Institute.

“The landscape for sports and entertainment has changed dramatically, I think you could argue, in McMahon’s favor,” Carter said, as digital media companies now compete to stream sports and young people become turned off by the length of games. “I think part of the failure of the XFL the first time around is it didn’t live up to unreasonably lofty expectations, and they lost the expectations game.”

The original XFL was announced just a year before its debut, and McMahon said he deliberately allowed two years between Thursday’s announcement and the league’s restart in 2020, because he believes the league will need more time to secure deals for stadiums and media rights.

He also said that he would consult with football experts to design rules that might make the game safer, a promise that duplicates an effort by the N.F.L.

The old XFL needed to be popular enough to justify broadcasts on NBC, but the advent of companies that stream sports digitally means the XFL might find a deal more suited to its size.

There are “so many more opportunities that were never there before,” said McMahon.

McMahon said he would not run the league day to day or be its public face. He was not supposed to be the public face of the old XFL, either. But on opening night, at Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, he was screaming to the crowd and television audience: “This. Is. The. XFL!”

“Forget what we did with the XFL,” McMahon said, laughing. “That was a long time ago.”

In the late 1990s, when the Clinton White House was under siege amid revelations of the president’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and efforts by Congress to impeach him, it fell on Joe Lockhart, then the White House spokesman, day after day to defend his boss.

But unlike many of his predecessors, he did not just take his marching orders. In countless meetings with the president and his advisers, Lockhart helped shape the message he would convey, and he aggressively pressed it to reporters.

“He was out there, he was on point, he was wearing his cleats,” said Doug Sosnik, an adviser to the president who worked closely with Lockhart at the time. “He’s a tough guy, willing to say what needs to be said, and he’s not worried about what people are saying about him.”

People have a lot to say about him again.

Last year, Lockhart took his pugnacious style to another embattled institution, the National Football League, where the lifelong Democratic operative has found himself in the conservative confines of a league staggered by the reaction to players’ demonstrating during the playing of the national anthem at games, as well as cases involving domestic violence, concussions, player misconduct and an array of other issues.

It is a curious career moment for a man who cut his teeth on the campaign trail and spent part of his post-White House days working for corporate titans like Oracle and Facebook.

But, as Sosnik and others who know him attest, Lockhart is a “wartime general, not a peacetime general” for institutions facing conflict. That’s not to say the troops are always in agreement.

In interviews with about a dozen league and team executives — all of whom refused to speak on the record — several owners seemed pleased with his approach to addressing the anthem controversy, which was to strive for a way for the N.F.L. to appear patriotic while respectful of its players who were kneeling to raise awareness of racism and police brutality toward African-Americans.

But there has been friction. Some owners were upset with a comment by Lockhart a few days after President Trump criticized the league and its players over the kneeling during the anthem. Lockhart told reporters that talking about police brutality is “what real locker room talk is.”

The statement was viewed as a flagrant jab at the president, who had dismissed as “locker room banter” comments he made about forcing himself on women, heard in a video leaked during the campaign.

In a meeting at N.F.L. headquarters the next day, the Dallas Cowboys’ owner, Jerry Jones, and the Washington Redskins’ owner, Dan Snyder, confronted Lockhart to tell him that his remarks would inflame an already fiery issue.

Lockhart confirmed the exchange, which was first reported by ESPN, but said his goal was to react quickly and forcefully, not to craft the perfect rejoinder.

In interviews, several owners, team executives and league officials said that Lockhart had helped amplify the league’s message, even if they questioned whether more could have been done to anticipate problems before they turned into crises. The attacks by the president, though, were so unusual that “you can’t dump this at his feet,” one team executive said of Lockhart.

Lockhart said that he understood why the owners were frustrated, but that his job was to keep pushing the league’s view, and pushing back at those who opposed it.

“That’s why they allow me to sit up there and promote it and defend the narrative that football is a great game, brings great values and it’s a great business,” he said.

The owners’ criticism, he said, “is just part of the job.”

Given the continuing heated debate inside the league on the issue, there is from time to time speculation on whether Lockhart is long for the job. But if there is a movement to oust him, it is a quiet one.

At events like the Super Bowl, Lockhart is often within arm’s reach of the league’s commissioner, Roger Goodell, the pair a study in contrasts. Goodell is tall, athletic and prim. Lockhart is slumped, stocky and tousled. He was so used to the casual dress style in Silicon Valley that he reluctantly resumed wearing neckties when he joined the button-down N.F.L.

Unlike his boss, who has worked more than four decades at the league office, Lockhart has thinner links to football. Growing up in Rockland County, northwest of New York City, he rooted for Joe Namath and the Jets, he said, but colleagues remember him more as a baseball fan, with a picture of the 1986 Mets hanging in his West Wing office. In high school, he played basketball, not football.

On Sundays during the season, if Lockhart is not at a stadium, he typically watches games in his Manhattan apartment with his two young children, whom he had with his second wife, Giovanna Gray, a former aide to Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York. (His first marriage, to the television journalist Laura Logan, ended in divorce.)

His political genes developed early.

Dinnertime conversation growing up was more likely to be about politics and journalism than sports. His parents worked in television, and his father was a longtime producer at NBC News. Every four years, the Lockhart family spent the summer wherever the presidential conventions were being held.

His skills in choppy political waters have been put to the test in the month since Trump lashed out at players who did not stand for the national anthem.

From the start of the crisis in late September, Lockhart used tactics he had honed in Washington. He has pushed the league’s case by reaching out to reporters with statements and near-daily conference calls. Through his bidding, the league has publicized positive things that the players are doing in their communities, promoted the idea that the players and owners are united (despite evidence on the field to the contrary), and tried to avoid addressing the president’s remarks directly.

Some of the tone and messaging of the league’s statements, which Lockhart helped craft, have also been in line with a Democratic progressive, a point some owners, a group that includes several staunch supporters of the president, have not missed. They seemed to seek a “third way,” a famously Clintonian way of compromise.

The league’s initial 87-word statement, issued the day after the president first attacked the league, came after Goodell, Lockhart and other league executives called owners to sound them out. Most N.F.L. statements are bland, but this one was notable for its directness as well as for what it left out.

Goodell’s statement did not explicitly defend the players’ right to protest during the anthem, or even mention racism, the core issue that started the sitting and kneeling demonstrations last season, but it included an unusually strong rebuttal to the president.

“Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities,” it said.

Many owners, including several who are donors to Democratic causes, soon followed with similar statements of their own. But other owners issued statements lamenting the league’s getting pulled into political debates.

After weeks of back and forth, and owners flirting with requiring players to stand, fewer players are kneeling during the anthem.

Lockhart has kept his assertive posture. In a talk with reporters, he was asked about the president, who said the N.F.L. should force all players to stand for the anthem. “He’s exercising his freedom to speak, and I’m exercising my freedom not to react,” Lockhart replied dryly.

As the N.F.L. and social media have grown, the league has become a lightning rod for a host of social issues, including bullying and domestic violence, that stretch its capacity to control the narrative.

Lockhart began advising the league as a consultant in 2014, after video surfaced showing the former running back Ray Rice knocking out his fiancée in an elevator.

When Lockhart’s predecessor, Paul Hicks, left the N.F.L. at the end of 2015, he was a logical replacement. Lockhart was interested in returning to New York and, he said, taking on a complex challenge to make the N.F.L. more fleet-footed and assured in responding to controversy. (It is unclear what he is paid, but according to N.F.L. tax filings, Hicks earned $1.5 million in his last year at the league.)

Lockhart, who worked on political campaigns dating to Jimmy Carter’s re-election bid in 1980, has quickly changed the metabolism in the league’s communications office. When The New York Times published an article last year that compared the N.F.L.’s approach to the concussion crisis to tactics used by the tobacco industry, Lockhart issued a long and detailed rebuttal, and said the league would consider taking legal action. (None has been taken.)

Some reporters are not buying what it is being pushed. Jim Trotter, the president of the Pro Football Writers of America, took exception to Lockhart’s assertion that the league had tried to become more transparent. Lockhart’s conference calls were initially not open to all writers, and Goodell and other top executives have not been made available, Trotter said.

“There’s no question they have been more proactive, and that’s part of Joe Lockhart’s approach to it,” Trotter said. “They will respond to things quicker than in the past. Does that mean it’s accurate? No, but it’s their opinion.”

Still, to a certain extent, he is still seen as a political animal, and a few owners, who by and large lean right, have questioned whether a lifelong Democrat like Lockhart (who sold his house in Washington to former President Barack Obama) is the best person to speak on behalf of the league.

Lockhart said his politics had little to do with his job.

“My work is about making sure that people understand what it is we’re doing, why that is and what impact it is having,” he said. “That’s devoid of a political agenda. It doesn’t mean I don’t have political views. But my overriding view when I come to work is, What’s good for the N.F.L.?”