The rowdy friends are coming back.

Hank Williams Jr. will return to the opening of “Monday Night Football” with his song “All My Rowdy Friends Are Here on Monday Night” and its catchphrase, “Are you ready for some football?” ESPN dropped the song six years ago after Williams made intemperate remarks about President Barack Obama.

The song had played for more than two decades on “Monday Night Football” and was closely identified with the show, and with football, for a generation of fans. But in 2011, in an appearance on “Fox & Friends” on Fox News Channel, Williams faulted Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner, a Republican, for playing golf together. It would be like “Hitler playing golf with Netanyahu,” he said, referring to Benjamin Netanyahu, the Israeli prime minister.

Follow our live coverage of N.F.L. Week 1 here.

Williams also likened Obama and Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to “the Three Stooges.”

Three days later, ESPN dropped the song, though Williams claimed the decision was his.

Now Williams says he is glad to be back. “I’m feeling at home and it’s a real good thing,” he told The Tennessean. “I hope there will be some happy people on Monday night again.” The new video with Williams for the show was taped in Nashville on Sunday.

Williams initially recorded the song as “All My Rowdy Friends Are Coming Over Tonight” in 1984. It was first broadcast on “Monday Night Football” in 1989, when the show aired on ABC. Williams regularly appeared in the show’s opening montage and recorded different versions of the song tailored for each week’s game.

ESPN never really tried to replace Williams and the popular song with anything as flashy. It mostly stuck with the longtime “Monday Night Football” instrumental theme known as “Heavy Action.”

“‘Monday Night Football’ had the most iconic music video in sports television history with Hank Williams Jr.,” ESPN said in a statement “Fans told us they missed it, so we’re excited to bring this popular segment back to ESPN for the 2017 N.F.L. season with some new twists. We expect to make a formal announcement soon.”

Speaking to The Tennessean about a possible backlash because of Williams’s views, Stephanie Druley, ESPN’s senior vice president for events and studio production, said, “I’m sure there’ll be some, but I’m not concerned.”

“It just immediately gets you psyched for the game you’re going to watch, and for football fans, that’s a big deal,” she said. “I think people will be really, really excited about it.”

The song was popular enough to earn a parody on “The Simpsons” — “Open Wide for Some Soccer” — and inspired a host of “Are You Ready for Some …” headlines and jokes.

Williams is currently touring. He is scheduled to play Durant, Okla., on Friday and Choctaw, Miss., on Saturday. This summer he plans to appear in a number of cities with Lynyrd Skynyrd.

Since leaving “Monday Night Football,” Williams has not hesitated to continue to make provocative statements. “We’ve got a Muslim for a president who hates cowboys, hates cowgirls, hates fishing, hates farming, loves gays, and we hate him!” he said of Obama to concertgoers in 2012.

Most football fans in the South who turn on CBS at 1 p.m. Sunday to watch N.F.L. football will see Baltimore at Green Bay. A much smaller portion of the audience in the South — mostly those living in Florida — will see Jacksonville at Cleveland.

And then there is the pocket of TV viewers in Mississippi who will be shown Kansas City at the Giants. The Giants are a very bad team, and the Chiefs are not exactly Mississippi’s team.

So what’s the explanation?

On each Sunday during the football season, CBS and Fox broadcast several football games simultaneously, but send only one to your home. The process by which the networks decide which game you will see is called regionalization.

At CBS, the executives Rob Correa and Kelly Wood, along with a team of researchers and staff members, decide which one. Each week, they prepare a preliminary schedule for three weekends out, a tentative schedule for two weekends out and a final schedule for one weekend out.

“We never know what week it is,” Correa said. “We literally come in on Sunday and go, ‘What week is it?’ ”

There are compelling — and often contradictory — justifications for placing certain games with each of the 200-plus CBS affiliates, but generally it comes down to predicting which game will draw the biggest rating. Strategy, Correa dismissed, is “a fancy word for picking the best games.”

But Correa and Wood can’t put the games just anywhere. There are myriad N.F.L. rules, broadcast restrictions and requests from local CBS affiliates influencing the process. They must consider esoteric sports-broadcast issues like home blackouts, flexing, cross flexing, prime flexing, constants, mandatory pullouts, primary markets, secondary markets and protected games.

In other words, it’s not as easy as, “Hey, everybody either really hates or really loves the Patriots, so let’s just put that game on everywhere.”

Here is how CBS went about regionalization for Week 11.

Week 11 is a doubleheader week for CBS, meaning it is showing games in both an early window (1 p.m., Eastern time) and a late window (4:25 p.m.). CBS and Fox have nine doubleheader weeks and eight singleheader weeks apiece throughout the season. When a network has a doubleheader the other network has a singleheader; the exception is Week 17, when they both have doubleheaders.

CBS generally broadcasts the American Football Conference, while Fox broadcasts the National Football Conference. When there are interconference matchups, like the Chiefs versus the Giants, the conference of the road team determines which network gets the broadcast. But some matchups are “cross-flexed” onto networks they wouldn’t normally be on.

In Week 11, this means the Buffalo at Los Angeles Chargers game — between two A.F.C. teams — is on Fox. Therefore, CBS has three games in the early window and two in the late window.

Kansas City at the Giants is the early-window game with the widest footprint, going to about 45 percent of the country. This game will be seen widely in the New York and Kansas City areas, as well as in New England and the areas of Kansas City’s A.F.C. West rivals. The game’s reach across the Mid-Atlantic will be constrained because Baltimore is playing at the same time.

And what about that portion of Mississippi that will be served Chiefs-Giants? Giants quarterback Eli Manning starred at the University of Mississippi, and CBS believes that a lot of people in the state still want to watch him play.

Individual players are usually not important enough to dictate where a broadcast goes, but there are a few exceptions — mostly quarterbacks who are from, or who attended college in, places other than major metropolitan areas. Besides Manning, Carson Wentz (North Dakota State), Deshaun Watson (Clemson), Teddy Bridgewater (Louisville) and Marcus Mariota (born in Hawaii) are among the players who might influence a broadcast decision.

“J.J. Watt, as unbelievable of a player he is, is not changing our map,” Correa said. (Watt, who plays for the Houston Texans, is from Wisconsin and was a standout at the University of Wisconsin.)

Five cities, comprising about 9 percent of the country’s population, will not get any N.F.L. game at all on CBS at 1 p.m.: Minneapolis, Chicago, Houston, New Orleans and Miami.

The N.F.L. long maintained strict blackout rules to compel fans to fill stadiums; until 2014, games that were not sold out were not broadcast at all in their home markets. But those rules have all but withered away. The last important rule remaining is that no N.F.L. game can be broadcast opposite a home team in its primary market.

At 1 p.m. Sunday, the Vikings, the Bears, the Texans, the Saints and the Dolphins are all playing at home — those games will be broadcast on Fox — so CBS cannot broadcast a game in those areas. Similarly, Fox will not be broadcasting games in New York, Green Bay or Cleveland.

In the late window, 4:25 p.m., Eastern time, about 86 percent of the country will watch New England play Oakland in Mexico City. But the timing of when CBS flips from the early to the late game, or whether it flexes out of the game because it’s a blowout, depends on where you live.

Oakland and most of Northern California, as well as Boston and some of New England, are designated mandatory pullout markets. Even if the early game runs long, even if it is the greatest game in N.F.L. history, these markets will be pulled out to see the New England at Oakland kickoff.

Only a small percentage of markets are designated mandatory pullouts. “You don’t want to be pulling people out of a game; it could be a great game,” Wood said.

On the flip side are the constant markets. By N.F.L. rules, if a team has an 18-point lead or greater in the third quarter, CBS can switch viewers to a different, more competitive game. But some markets — mostly those that were mandatory pullouts, plus a few others — are constants, meaning CBS will not switch them away from the game in progress.

Twelve days before a given Sunday’s games, CBS sends out tentative game assignments to its affiliates. A small number of affiliates usually respond with requests — to receive a different game or to have their constant or mandatory pullout status changed. CBS accedes to most of these requests.

Six days before a given Sunday’s games, CBS sends out final game assignments. It makes changes based on affiliate requests, as well as any major developments in Sunday’s games. A game’s footprint may decrease after a star is injured, for example, or increase after two teams score upset victories and enter the playoff picture.

Week 11’s final assignments look quite similar to the preliminary assignments. Eight game assignments were changed in the 1 p.m. window, all because of affiliate requests. Seven affiliates dumped the Baltimore at Green Bay matchup, mostly switching to the Kansas City at Giants game.

Thirty-six hours before the games, nothing will change. Well, unless …

“Unless a game moves, nothing is going to change,” Wood said.

“Which has happened,” Correa interjected. “Hurricanes or snowstorms. Remember the one in Philly, where they got like two inches of snow?

“You remember all this crazy stuff.”

MEXICO CITY — To wink at the New Orleans Saints’ rise, they bellowed “When the Saints Go Marching In,” doing their best, if slightly accented, Louis Armstrong impersonation.

Half-arguing, like fans at a bar, they assessed the best football coaches of all time, pointedly leaving out one visiting here this weekend: Bill Belichick.

And, even thousands of miles south of the United States border, the lowly Los Angeles Chargers could not escape some lumps for failing to fill their small, temporary and noticeably empty stadium.

“Nuestros amigos del podcast podrían llenar ese estadio,” joked Ulises Harada. (“Our podcast friends could fill that stadium.”)

Maybe he wasn’t kidding.

Harada is a host and founder of Primero y Diez, or First and 10, a collection of morning zoo-style podcasts, filled with songs and zany sound effects, about all things N.F.L. Its online programs, cousins of the Men in Blazers mode of coverage, are some of the most popular in Mexico, reflecting an unabashed devotion to the sport that has helped persuade the league to stage and promote games here.

Primero y Diez began as a blog in 2008, run by Harada and a friend, and has mushroomed into four podcasts, with a paid staff of 12 and, it says, 1.5 million visits to its programs monthly during the football season.

Primero y Diez has grown in sync with Mexican interest in the N.F.L., accelerated by the regular-season game here last season — the first in Mexico City in 11 years — and by a matchup Sunday between the New England Patriots and Oakland Raiders at the city’s famed Estadio Azteca, with another game planned for next year.

Mexico’s proximity to the United States and a developing middle class fluent in American culture, not to mention innumerable cross-border ties, make it a market with unfulfilled potential for American sports leagues.

The N.B.A., too, has a serious eye on Mexico, with two regular-season games to be played here in December and its commissioner, Adam Silver, professing interest in adding a franchise in Mexico City. Formula One, for the third year, staged a prominent race here in October, and Major League Baseball has plans to hold a three-game series between the San Diego Padres and the Los Angeles Dodgers in May in Monterrey, the first regular-season games in Mexico in 19 years.

The leagues are finding that these big events carry a cachet that Mexicans, regardless of their level of interest in the sport, are willing to pay for.

“There is a social effect, and one of not wanting to miss the big event in the city,” said Rodrigo Latorre, an independent sports marketing analyst. “In that regard, a lot of attendance is guaranteed.”

Both N.F.L. games, in a stadium with a capacity of 72,000 for American football, sold out in less than an hour. The average price was $95.

On Primero y Diez programs, the complicated discussions and debate that occur in the United States — over concussions, domestic violence, racial protests by players and whether the sport is in decline — take a back seat to full-throated dissections of Philip Rivers’s floating passes, and Blake Bortles’s interceptions, and whether the Rams “can play with the big boys of the N.F.C.”

“Here in Mexico they like sports, but they don’t like to talk about what surrounds sports,” said Harada, 32, who worked in public relations and sports journalism before beginning the site to satisfy his own demand for saturated N.F.L. news and commentary.

When the site shut down for a week in September, out of respect for the 370 people killed in and around Mexico City by an earthquake , a wave of complaints came in.

“People were looking for information to place their bets,” said Andres Ornelas, 34, who does a betting podcast for the site. “They said it’s how they pay their rent.”

A loose vibe prevails in the cramped, rented booth where the podcasts are recorded. A cardboard cutout of Raiders quarterback Derek Carr loomed over the hosts last week, and during one taping they sipped cold beer while riffing on the weekend’s games.

“There is great quality in their content with a lot of different elements that give great, additional value,” said Eric Arriaga, a 34-year-old government lawyer who follows the podcasts. “All their work is unique and original.”

Though overshadowed by the more widespread, rabid following of soccer, American football has long been popular here, with youth leagues (some of them financed by the N.F.L.), high school and college programs and fledgling professional teams.

The N.F.L. is betting on a future of long-term economic growth in Mexico to expand the middle class and lure more sponsors; further develop a growing fan base (the league’s surveys put it at upward of 10 million self-described hard-core fans); and increase sales of merchandise, as well as television and media rights.

In a typical week, nine games are aired in Mexico City, two on broadcast television and the others on cable — in some cases more than what is available in most American cities. As in the United States, ratings have slipped “in the single digits,” said Arturo Olive, the N.F.L.’s point person in Mexico.

Some of that loss, he said, has been made up through the growing popularity of the league’s Game Pass service, which allows viewers to stream any game, and Olive predicted that the N.F.L. and Televisa, the Mexican broadcasting powerhouse that carries the regular-season games, would renew their contract when it comes up in 2020.

Most analysts believe that security and logistical hurdles make putting a permanent team here largely a fantasy. The city’s smog and elevation of about 7,500 feet are enough of a challenge that extra oxygen tanks will be on hand for the players this weekend.

But the league reaps benefits in business deals around the visits. Olive said the game on Sunday would turn a profit for the league, but he declined to elaborate.

“At the very least, the underlying long-run effect of the N.F.L.’s traveling expansion-relocation gambit is ultimately to widen the league’s worldwide media footprint,” said John Vrooman, a Vanderbilt University economist who has studied the league’s strategy.

The N.F.L. decided to resume regular-season games here after Estadio Azteca, a showcase venue for soccer, was remodeled last year for its 50th anniversary, adding two locker rooms suitable for professional football teams and internet and communications upgrades expressly to lure back the N.F.L.

The Patriots and the Raiders are two of the most popular teams in Mexico. The Cowboys and the Steelers lead the pack, since their games were the first to be broadcast in the country in the 1970s. When fans are encountered here, they tend to be rabid about the sport.

“What I would tell you is the level of knowledge that fans have of the game, the Xs and Os, the sophistication, is as strong as it is in the U.S.,” said Mark Waller, the N.F.L.’s chief international executive. “When you become the fan of a sport in another country, almost by definition you become more knowledgeable because you have to force yourself to learn it.”

The young men behind Primero y Diez exemplify that.

Their site is housed in an incubator for tech start-ups in a hip neighborhood, buzzing with well-educated 20- and 30-somethings like themselves.

Jorge Tinajero, 41, a computer engineer who is another founder of the site, traces his passion for the sport to a family tradition of football, in his case a father who played at a college in Mexico.

Tinajero played touch football as a boy and remembers getting hooked for good while watching John Elway in the Super Bowl against the Giants.

“And then I started suffering every two or three years like die-hard Broncos fans,” he said.

Carlos Gorozpe, 31, a social network and website consultant and a commentator on Primero y Diez, said he had never caught the soccer bug, instead inheriting a fondness for the Buffalo Bills from an uncle mad about the team and about college football here and in the United States.

“As a kid, I woke up to watch bowl games,” he said.

Primero y Diez receives news media credentials from the N.F.L. — and Harada writes occasional pieces in Spanish for the Steelers’ website — but it otherwise is not affiliated with the league, which Harada said he preferred.

“I like the idea of independence, I have so many ideas,” he said.

This week, Primero y Diez has been in its element. It has published a magazine on the Patriots-Raiders game, filled with statistical breakdowns, player snapshots, a history of the stadium. And it was planning live shows on Facebook in the days leading up to the game.

“I don’t see the Raiders winning this game, but … ” Gorozpe said during a recording session, setting up an argument about the strengths and weaknesses of the teams. The debate litigated, among other points, whether the Raiders’ having played here last year (in a 27-20 win over the Houston Texans) was a bonus or the Patriots’ general dominance and their altitude training in Colorado this week would give them an edge.

“I don’t know what the Raiders are going to do to deter the offense of the Patriots,” Tinajero said.

Harada settled on a prediction: Raiders over the Patriots, 31-28.

It surely did not come out of thin air.

Mississippi’s football coach, Hugh Freeze, resigned Thursday after university officials found a “pattern of personal misconduct” that started with the university’s investigation into a call to an escort service.

Freeze’s resignation brings a stunning end to a five-year tenure that included a Sugar Bowl victory but also a wide-ranging N.C.A.A. investigation into rule violations. His downfall came after university officials investigated Freeze’s phone records.

“In our analysis, we discovered a pattern of conduct that is not consistent with our expectations as the leader of our football program,” Athletic Director Ross Bjork said. “As of yesterday, there appeared to be a concerning pattern.”

Bjork said the university’s investigation had started last week after concerns were raised over a phone call, revealed through a Freedom of Information Act request, that lasted less than a minute. The university looked into the rest of Freeze’s phone records and found more reasons for concern.

Bjork said Freeze had “admitted the conduct” and offered his resignation. When pressed to explain Freeze’s conduct, Bjork said the university needed to “protect that information,” adding that “his privacy is important.”

Matt Luke, an offensive coordinator at Ole Miss, has been named the interim head coach.

Freeze’s university cellphone records, obtained by The Associated Press, show a one-minute call on Jan. 19, 2016, to a Detroit-based number. An internet search showed that the number was linked to a site that offered escort services.

“I’ve got no idea, to be honest,” Freeze, 47, told Yahoo Sports, which first reported the nature of the call. “I was in an 813 area code and that was a 313 number. I think that might have been a misdial. I don’t think there was even a conversation. There’s nothing to it.”

The Rebels had a quick rise under Freeze, recruiting at a high level and reaching a high point with a Sugar Bowl victory over Oklahoma State following the 2015 season.

But an N.C.A.A. investigation — alleging 21 charges of academic, booster and recruiting misconduct — has overshadowed much of that success, especially over the past year.

Freeze, who was making more than $5 million per year, had a 39-25 record over five seasons, 19-21 in the Southeastern Conference. His departure completes a stunning fall for a coach who a few years ago had been considered a rising star.

Freeze took over after Houston Nutt was fired during a miserable 2011 season that ended with a 2-10 record. Ole Miss immediately improved under Freeze, finishing 7-6 in 2012 and winning the Birmingham Bowl.

The Rebels continued to surge on the field and on the recruiting trail over the next several seasons. But Ole Miss’s newfound ability to recruit at a high level drew the attention of the N.C.A.A., which was already investigating the university over violations that occurred during Nutt’s tenure.

Freeze, a native of northern Mississippi, had an unlikely rise to major college coaching, spending about a decade as a successful high school coach in Memphis before landing a job at Ole Miss in the mid-2000s under Ed Orgeron. After Orgeron was fired in 2007, Freeze became the head coach at Lambuth, a tiny college in western Tennessee.

He became Arkansas State’s offensive coordinator in 2010 and was promoted to head coach in 2011, leading the Red Wolves to a Sun Belt Conference title before being hired at Ole Miss.

The families of debilitated former N.F.L. players say the league is obstructing their access to an estimated $1 billion settlement over concussions by reflexively rejecting valid claims and bogging down the process with unreasonable demands.

After a contentious five-year fight between the league and many former players who had accused the N.F.L. of hiding the dangers of head trauma, the two sides agreed in 2015 to a settlement that covers nearly every former player for the next 65 years.

Now the families and their lawyers describe a succession of roadblocks as they try to claim payouts, from as little as a few thousand dollars to potentially several million dollars, to help thousands of retired players left mentally infirm, in some cases severely, from years of hits and tackles on the league’s fields.

Of 1,400 claims filed so far, 140 have been approved, which legal experts say is startlingly low. The remaining 90 percent of those claims are in the process of being evaluated or have been sent back to the players and their lawyers to amend before they can be approved.

The 140 approved claims are worth $195 million, but the N.F.L. has written checks for only $100 million. The remainder is expected to be released after appeals are exhausted. The league has appealed eight awards that the administrator granted, and 12 players have appealed their awards, calling them too low. The administrator also randomly audits 10 percent of all claims.

When the league agreed to the settlement several years ago, retired players were told that they could expect speedy payouts, assuming the diagnoses for Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and other ailments covered in the settlement were in order.

But the N.F.L. installed so many safeguards and trapdoors into the deal, lawyers for the players said, that in the eight months since the court-approved administrator of the settlement began accepting claims, many players have been forced to spend months scrounging for paperwork they did not think they had to keep, finding new doctors to confirm established diagnoses and lodging time-consuming appeals.

The requests, the league said, are part of its efforts to deter potential fraud and do not represent foot-dragging or a lack of will to help the sick men. But as a result, the players now accuse the nation’s richest league, with $14 billion in revenue, of trying to wear them down so they accept smaller payouts, or none at all.

“Players will be shorted what they earned,” said Andrew Stewart, a retired defensive lineman with Parkinson’s disease who expected to receive nearly $3 million but, after a series of delays and requests, has been offered less than a third of that amount and is appealing. “This is not a settlement. This is about paying sick men as little as possible.”

Mr. Stewart, who was in the league from 1989 to 1993 and now lives in Canada, received a Parkinson’s diagnosis nearly a decade ago and has been receiving aid from two N.F.L. benefit plans. But to receive money from the settlement, he was required to get a diagnosis from an American doctor.

Alerted to some of the delays and accusations of unfairness leveled by lawyers for the players, Anita B. Brody, the federal judge overseeing the case, met with the N.F.L., the plaintiffs’ chief lawyer and a court-appointed administrator on Monday in Philadelphia to look at ways handle claims more efficiently and more transparently.

“Like an insurance company, they deny everything, and they go through a series of denials until people give up,” said Sheilla Dingus, who runs Advocacy for Fairness in Sports, an unaffiliated nonprofit group that monitors the league’s legal cases. “Unfortunately, the N.F.L. has the capital to keep this going a lot longer than some of these players will live.”

Orran Brown, the court-approved administrator of the settlement, said it was common for the parties to settlements to fine-tune their agreements to account for issues that arise. He said that players were now, for instance, being asked to turn in the raw scores from their neurocognitive exams even though that was not explicit in the original agreement.

He said the bulk of the claims that had been sent back to players were for missing paperwork. But another group of claims has been reviewed because many players were receiving identical diagnoses from the same physician, leading to questions of whether the players had been properly examined.

Mr. Brown said he understood that players and their lawyers might view these additional requirements with suspicion. But he said they were part of an effort to prevent fraud, not block real claims.

“It does seem people feel they are being nickeled and dimed on paperwork,” Mr. Brown said. “But there’s nothing nefarious or conspiratorial in this. The goal is to make sure everyone gets paid for legitimate claims.”

The former players who have filed claims are seeking up to $5 million each — though most will probably receive far less — for severe neurological diseases tied to years of head hits on the field. A total of 20,000 retired players registered so they could submit claims now or in the future from the settlement, which offers one-time cash awards for those with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated head hits that is diagnosed posthumously.

Chris Seeger, the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said that the administration of such class-action settlements often had “growing pains” because of unanticipated problems. In this case, some former players have “pushed the envelope,” he said, by, among other things, obtaining diagnoses from psychologists, not neurologists; having doctors affirm diagnoses without examining patients; or submitting claims without the necessary medical records.

By bouncing claims back to players, the administrator is trying to address “some funny things that didn’t look right,” and to ensure that when claims are finally evaluated, they have a better chance of being approved, Mr. Seeger said.

Mr. Seeger disputes claims by lawyers who accuse the N.F.L. of foot-dragging and trying to reduce payments to players.

“Is this working perfectly? No,” Mr. Seeger said. But “if there aren’t sufficient records to support a diagnosis, then we have a problem,” he said. “The procedures are laid out, but there is early on typically confusion. Some of it is legitimate stuff that is getting worked out.”

Many lawyers for the players do not agree with that explanation. The high number of claims that have been questioned, they said, is evidence that fraud prevention is being used as a way to keep down payouts.

“I worked at State Farm for 10 years, so I understand all the tactics,” said Patrick Tighe, a lawyer in Florida who represents 90 players. “There are all sorts of ways to slow down the claims.”

All 35 claims Mr. Tighe has filed have been audited or sent back because of “deficiencies,” he said. Jim Acho, a lawyer in Michigan who represents former players, including Gale Sayers, said that just four of the nearly three dozen claims he had filed were approved, and that two of those were audited.

Jason Luckasevic, who represents dozens of former N.F.L. players, has filed more than 100 claims, and more than 85 percent of them have been flagged for deficiencies.

“The settlement was sold by the N.F.L. and Seeger as quick pay,” Mr. Luckasevic said. “This was something everyone feared. This is the N.F.L. disability plan version 2.0.”

The N.F.L., which insisted on much of the fraud prevention language in the settlement, denies that it has pushed the administrator to deliberately delay the payment of genuine claims, and it said that stricter requirements were not added after the deal was made final.

“There have been no changes in the terms of the settlement agreement or the criteria for claims approval since the settlement was finalized,” Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said in a statement, adding that neither the league nor Mr. Seeger had taken any steps to delay the payment of legitimate claims.

The frustration among players is particularly acute for those whose neurological diseases were diagnosed years before the settlement was approved, and who are receiving benefits for those ailments from the N.F.L. under one of its regular disability plans. The delays are making it harder for them to cover escalating medical costs and, in some cases, to repay high-interest loans they took out using their settlement as collateral.

Yet many players are afraid to speak publicly about their cases because they fear the N.F.L. will deny their claims or strip them of other benefits.

Mr. Stewart, one of the few who would talk, said the league must be held accountable. He was found to have Parkinson’s disease in 2009, when he was 43.

Mr. Stewart expected to receive a gross award of $2.8 million from the concussions settlement. But after he filed a claim, he was told that another doctor had to confirm his diagnosis.

The new diagnosis, though, would have applied to his current age, 51, which would have reduced his award by $1.2 million because in the settlement, older players are paid less than younger players on the presumption that their disease is related to age, not football.

After Mr. Stewart submitted much additional paperwork, the administrator recognized the earlier diagnosis. But the award was reduced to $750,000 because the administrator calculated he had played only one season, not four.

In the deal, the more eligible seasons a player has, the higher the exposure and the higher the award. But the number of seasons is reduced if players spent time on the injured reserved list because they presumably were not exposed to head hits then.

Mr. Stewart does not dispute being injured for parts of his career. But in his day, coaches forced him to keep practicing — often with the aid of painkillers — so he was exposed to head hits even if he did not play on game day.

In many ways, the N.F.L. case is different from many settlements, experts said. Most settlements describe the kinds of documents to support claims, like a credit card number or a receipt. In the N.F.L. settlement, many retirees are applying for benefits for dementia, which can be complicated to diagnose because it is more subjective than, say, A.L.S.

Because awards can reach millions of dollars, the players’ lawyers — many of whom receive a percentage any settlement — have an incentive to make their clients look worse than they may be, a reason for the N.F.L. to be alert to fraud, experts said.

Indeed, when the deal was first announced in 2013, the N.F.L. agreed to pay $765 million. But players feared the money would run out before every claim was filed, so the league agreed to “uncap” payments. In return for unlimited liability, the N.F.L. insisted on stronger rules to block fraudulent claims.

But the slow pace of approved claims has raised questions about whether those rules were meant to do more than fight fraud.

Kenneth Feinberg, who has administered large class-action settlements, including those related to the BP oil spill and the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, said that in the cases he had handled, defendants had a right to try to prevent fraud. But the delays that have come from questioning a large number of claims can erode trust in the settlement.

“It’s not just how many claims have been found eligible, but how quickly the money goes out the door,” said Mr. Feinberg, who is not involved in the N.F.L. case. “All the words in the world are no substitute for visible evidence of generosity, and checks flowing to families in need.”

When the Columbia Lions football team snapped its infamous 44-game losing streak on Oct. 8, 1988, Michael Rosenthal was among thousands in the stands who stood and cheered, “We won!”

Puzzled, Mr. Rosenthal, the associate dean, then turned to a friend and asked, “What’s the protocol?”

Almost 30 years later, as the school is forging its best football season in recent memory, going 6-0 after the weekend’s 22-17 win over Dartmouth, some Columbians are still grappling with how to celebrate gridiron success. Indeed, a few see no cause for celebration at all.

“Columbia football? They still have that?” said the writer Vince Passaro, Columbia College class of 1979.

“I haven’t been keeping up with this,” he added. “Not in the least. It’s all brand new to me and I already resent it.”

For decades, Columbia football has been a running punch line. The university has not won an Ivy League championship since 1961, when it shared the laurels with Harvard. After going 6-3 in 1971, the Lions did not have another winning season for 23 years. More recently, they lost 24 straight games before beating Wagner in 2015.

Under Al Bagnoli, who was hired that year as head coach, this season is shaping up to be quite different, even extraordinary. The Lions have not started 6-0 since 1996, and their victory against Dartmouth ensured their first winning season since that year. Currently, they are first in the Ivy League. More than 13,000 spectators witnessed the team’s 34-31 overtime victory at homecoming against the University of Pennsylvania on Oct. 14 — the biggest turnout since 2003.

Some who wave the blue and white are euphoric. “This is utterly exciting,” said Beth Chung, a middle-school teacher in Falls Church, Va., and a Columbia College graduate of 1988. “It was deeply disturbing to me when we couldn’t win a game for five years.”

And yet, precisely because they are so used to losing, others can’t — or won’t — accept the situation.

“When my husband told me that Columbia had beaten Penn, I said, ‘That’s bad news,’” said Ms. Chung’s classmate Jill Levey, a New Jersey fund-raising consultant. “When I went to Columbia, we prided ourselves on being anti-football and pro-intellectual. Can’t we retain our pride in being anti-athletic intellectual nerds?”

A number of Columbia alumni are perversely proud of dismal football results, believing they reflect academic superiority. Others speak of building character through adversity. Either way, certain graduates are uneasy.

“Very pleasantly unsettling” is how the financial journalist Samantha Rowan, who graduated from Barnard, the women’s college associated with Columbia, in 1996, described her feelings. Happy though she is for the team, years of disappointment have led her to expect the worst.

“You want to look, but you’re almost afraid that your heart is going to get broken on every play,” said Ms. Rowan, the president of the Columbia University Band Alumni Association. “I’ve seen any number of games where things went wrong.”

The Columbia band is notoriously irreverent in addressing this kind of disappointment. In 2011, the athletic department briefly barred the group from performing after it altered the fight song “Roar, Lion, Roar” to include such lyrics as “We always lose lose lose / By a lot and sometimes by a little.”

William Oliver, class of 1964, understands such skepticism. “There are now whole generations of alumni who don’t have memories of a positive period,” he said.

Mr. Oliver, who held major positions in several Columbia administrative offices over more than 25 years, suggested that any jadedness is less a function of campus culture than that of the five boroughs.

“I think it’s more of a New York thing — a cynical, don’t-accept-the-easy-but-enjoy-the-underdog thing. A sort of toughness and refusal to be taken in. It’s more of a city experience, and Columbia has always been part of that, and football has been an emblem of that.”

For the moment, alumni dollars aren’t reflecting any such jaundice. On Oct. 18, the annual Columbia Giving Day yielded over $3.1 million in pledges for athletics, compared with $2.7 million in 2016, according to Lauren Dwyer, the university’s senior associate director of athletics development. Last year, about $260,000 was earmarked for football; this year the total so far is $302,000, Ms. Dwyer said.

In general, current students are more enthusiastic than battle-hardened alumni. “I don’t know about you, but I’ve found my heroes,” wrote Joseph Siegel, a sophomore, recently in the Columbia Daily Spectator. “The titanic athletes in their helmets and pads, the wide expanse of the stadium, the goal posts and lights scraping into the sky; for all this, I see no substitute.”

Some alumni are simply coming to grips with their own changing perceptions.

“The pure joy of Columbia football is that we’re not supposed to be good,” said Sahil Godiwala, Columbia College class of 1999. A New York-based lawyer, he vividly remembers the coverage on the student-run radio station WKCR-FM.

“I got hooked on the broadcasts,” Mr. Godiwala recalled. “The announcers lost all semblance of professionalism and talked about the games as if they were a comedy show. They conveyed the surrealness of the situation. If we had a win, it was because some freak accident happened. We would get a fumble on the goal line or something like that.”

Now, he said, he is “thrilled” that the Lions are winning. “I have absolutely no reservation.”

“My feelings as an alumnus are very different from when I was a student,” said Stephen Holtje, Columbia College class of 1983. When he was in the university’s marching band, he said, “Being a rabid sports fan was not really hip. I remember taking great delight in Columbia’s perfection of the forward fumble.”

Today, Mr. Holtje is manager of the record label ESP-Disk and has a different slant. “I no longer need to be hip and ironic,” he said. “When they’re losing, it means nothing and I don’t notice. But when they win, it’s like this amazing blessing out of nowhere.”

Mr. Holtje dismissed any notions that Columbia’s current football prowess might overshadow the university’s emphasis on academics. “It’s sufficiently obvious that we will not be Ohio State,” he said, “so we don’t have to worry — even if we have an undefeated season.”

But Mr. Passaro, among others, is not satisfied. For him, today’s Lions symbolize a cheerful, rah-rah Columbia that he derides as “Princeton on the Hudson.” To his mind, the authentic Columbia is the scrappy institution of higher learning he attended in the 1970s — when New York was bankrupt, the Baker Field stadium was rotting and the Lions were reassuringly predictable bums.

“Whatever this miraculous thing is that you’re telling me about, I don’t understand it and I don’t like it,” Mr. Passaro said. “My Columbia was a happily bohemian place and I wish it were still.”