The anonymous Twitter poster who leaked last year’s N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament pairings halfway through CBS’s televised selection show is on the minds of a lot of people this weekend.

CBS Sports and Turner — broadcast partners whose deal for the tournament is worth nearly $20 billion through 2032 — remember the episode well, even if they still do not know how the Twitter user, who at the time occupied the handle @RICHIE, got his or her hands on the complete bracket.

And the N.C.A.A. said in a statement last month that it had “taken additional measures that we believe will prevent any premature release of information from reoccurring.”

“This includes,” the organization said, “reducing the number of entities and people who receive the bracket in advance.”

One upside of the incident? It has sparked changes to this year’s selection show.

CBS is shortening the program — which for many years lasted only a half-hour — to 90 minutes from two hours, and it will be frontloading the revealing of the bracket. A “vast majority” of the bracket will be released in the first 30 minutes, Sean McManus, chairman of CBS Sports, said last week. Most supplementary analysis and interviews will take place only after the bracket is revealed, according to David Levy, Turner’s president.

Levy acknowledged that the changes were not exclusively a response to the leak; they are also a reaction to the substantial outrage that last year’s drawn-out program engendered.

“I think we underestimated the viewers’ impatience,” he said last week.

That might have been why many fans embraced the leak, even if those affected most directly were not sure what to make of it.

Seth Davis, a college basketball analyst for CBS and Sports Illustrated, was on the air when it happened, focusing on the task at hand — analyzing the bracket as teams were revealed — and trying to make sure he did not inadvertently commit a similar spoiler.

“I’m always petrified about revealing something,” Davis said. “Like, if Syracuse comes up: ‘Oh, I can’t believe Syracuse got in and Rhode Island didn’t!’”

Tyler Roberson, then a junior at Syracuse, which was not assured a place in the field, said he was glued to the television when @RICHIE posted the entire bracket on Twitter. The leaked bracket showed the Orange with the Midwest’s No. 10 seed, but CBS — only halfway through the selections — had not yet revealed that quadrant.

“I didn’t know if it was true or not,” Roberson said. As CBS started to fill in the remainder of the bracket and the leaked version continued to match CBS’s, Roberson said, “we just got more and more confident about it.”

Syracuse wound up riding its 10th seed all the way to the Final Four.

Preventing the bracket’s leak can seem trivial, not only in an era of ubiquitous social media and self-publishing but also because CBS plans to release the full bracket not long after it is completed. But according to Neal Pilson, it matters a great deal to the rights holders. A former CBS Sports president, Pilson was the primary negotiator when his network pried the tournament’s broadcast rights from NBC in the early 1980s. The first live selection show aired on CBS in 1982.

“In terms of its allocation on rights fees, it’s obviously very small,” Pilson said. “But it’s still an extremely important part of how we present the tournament.”

He added, “Our theory was that the tournament is like a movie: It has a beginning, a middle and an end.”

The revealing of the field, then, is the dynamic action-movie opening that sucks you in for the rest of the ride — assuming it is pulled off without a hitch.

The CBS sportscaster Jim Nantz, who hosted the selection show for many years and now broadcasts segments on it after he is finished calling the Big Ten tournament, agreed.

“I always thought it was the coolest thing to be involved in,” he said last week, “because as a college basketball junkie, I couldn’t wait to look at the pairings, see where people were being sent.”

Asked whether anything remotely like last year’s leak had happened before, Nantz paused a moment and replied, “Yes.”

In 2005 or 2007 (key principals could not recall the precise year), and while Nantz and his broadcast partner Billy Packer were wrapping up their work on the Big Ten tournament at Chicago’s United Center, sheets of paper with the brackets were passed to them in advance of the selection show telecast. Nantz and Packer peeked, and casually discussed some of the matchups.

But as they stalled for the start of the show, and the bracket’s official unveiling, a man hovered nearby, listening and scribbling notes on a pad, according to Pat McGrath, Nantz’s longtime statistician.

In the production truck, the CBS director Bob Fishman, watching the feed of Nantz and Packer, noticed the man and then saw him slip out of the shot. McGrath was dispatched to chase him; he caught up to the man near the court’s exit and confronted him.

“What’ve you got there?” McGrath asked.

“I got nothing,” the man replied, according to McGrath.

But McGrath persisted, demanding, “Let me see it!” and tearing the top sheet off the man’s notebook. It contained the No. 1 seeds and a few key pairings. The crisis was averted, but those involved did not forget it.

“To the general public — do you care where you’re getting your brackets first?” Nantz asked rhetorically. “But for us, CBS and Turner, we’re paying a lot of money.”

Ivy League purists can blame Gabas Maldunas for helping upend 60 years of tradition.

Maldunas was a versatile 6-foot-9 post player for Dartmouth, although he never had the opportunity to showcase his talent on a national stage. In his four seasons playing for the Big Green basketball team, from 2011 to 2015, Dartmouth never finished above .500 in conference play.

But in his final Ivy League game, Maldunas experienced a sliver of March Madness euphoria and forever became a villain in New Haven, making a winning layup against Yale that helped extend a Bulldogs N.C.A.A. tournament drought that at that point had lasted more than a half-century. The basket, the final highlight in a forgettable Dartmouth season, has had a lasting ripple effect.

The loss dropped Yale into a tie with Harvard for the Ivy League title. Because the league had no postseason tournament, a one-game playoff to award the league’s N.C.A.A. tournament berth was held. A week later, Yale lost that game as well, 53-51, in front of a raucous crowd at the Palestra in Philadelphia. Yale was devastated, but many others in the league found the drama thrilling.

“It was electric,” the Ivy League’s executive director, Robin Harris, said. “There were several A.D.s who attended that game who did not have a team participating, and they did so just to see what the atmosphere was like.”

The idea of creating a postseason tournament in the Ivy League had long been under discussion, a classic sports debate about the value of regular-season excellence versus one-weekend luck. The 2015 Harvard-Yale playoff only whetted appetites even more.

So last March, amid an influx of new personnel and shifting opinions among players and coaches, the Ivy League broke with its tradition and became the final Division I conference to institute a postseason tournament. Under the inaugural format, the top four regular-season finishers will compete for the league’s automatic bid to the N.C.A.A. men’s and women’s tournaments on March 11 and 12 at the Palestra.

“The March Madness feel is something that’s been missing in the Ivy League,” said the Columbia women’s coach, Megan Griffith, who played for the Lions and coached on Princeton’s staff for six seasons. “Everybody gets that exposure now.”

With one weekend of games remaining and seeding on the men’s and women’s sides undecided, the league has the heightened drama it coveted.

Last Saturday, Columbia’s Luke Petrasek blocked a potential tying 3-point attempt by Penn’s Jackson Donahue at the buzzer to keep the Lions alive for a conference tournament berth.

Afterward, Petrasek’s teammates stormed the court, and the senior Jeff Coby kicked the basketball into the student section. It was probably the most intense celebration in history for a team that had just moved to 5-7 in conference play, but the win was a vital lifeline: It tied Columbia — which last appeared in the N.C.A.A.s in 1968 — with Penn for fourth place in the league standings, and in doing so kept alive the possibility of a fairy-tale March run.

Not every team is as thrilled with the changes. Princeton’s men’s team, for example, is 12-0 in conference play this season, and has won 15 consecutive games over all. In past years, with a two-game lead over second-place Harvard (10-2 Ivy) entering this weekend, the Tigers would need only one victory or a Crimson loss to clinch a place in the N.C.A.A. tournament. Now, they must finish strong to protect their seed, but still could end up facing Penn, their archrival, in one of the Ivy semifinals on Penn’s home court.

The Princeton women’s coach, Courtney Banghart, said the league should consider rewarding the top seed, perhaps by having it host the tournament.

“I hope that happens,” Mitch Henderson, the Princeton men’s coach, said. “Not just because we stand in that position right now, but we should be protecting our No. 1 seed.”

Banghart also suggested switching the format to three teams, with the winner of a game between the second- and third-place finishers playing the top seed, which would receive a bye for winning the regular-season crown.

Harris, the league’s executive director, emphasized that one of the main reasons for deciding on the current bracket was to package the men’s and women’s events. She added that the conference would re-evaluate the system in May and make adjustments as needed.

“The Palestra was an easy answer, especially for the inaugural year,” Harris said. “It’s the cathedral of college basketball.”

She added, “We’re going to make the court and venue as neutral as possible,” a reference to the signage and dominant colors in the building.

Harris was hired by the Ivy League in 2009. She said she immediately began surveying athletes about adding a tournament. “I never came across one who said they didn’t want one,” Harris said. “To me, that’s really compelling.”

Yet like antique collectors who see beauty in rotary phones or Atari consoles, a segment of Ivy League alumni and fans is already pining for the old days. Minimalism has long been an Ivy League calling card; most teams still don’t print players’ names on the back of their jerseys, and home teams still wear their road uniforms on the Saturdays after Friday night games to spare their visitors a laundry crisis.

Penn center Sydney Stipanovich, a senior, said she had grown to like the novelty of a regular-season marathon, which came to be known as “the 14-game tournament,” to crown a champion. And the former Penn athletic director Steve Bilsky, one of the staunchest critics of an Ivy tournament, still isn’t sold on changing that format.

Bilsky called the 14-game schedule — home and away against every league team — “the fairest way to crown a champion,” and he liked that it guaranteed the league would send its best team to the N.C.A.A. tournament.

“I understand why people want to do it, and I think this year’s will be exciting,” Bilsky said. “It’s the first time and there’s the newness of it, but to sustain it and be the right thing for the long haul, I still question it.”

Harris noted the new tournament would increase television exposure for the Ivy League, because all of the games will be broadcast or streamed on ESPN’s networks. Most important, though, she pointed out that the change meant there would be few meaningless games entering the final weekend. But the focus is likely to be away from the league leaders and on the “bubble” teams: Brown and Yale trail fourth-place Cornell by a game in the women’s standings, and then there is the Penn-Columbia race on the men’s side.

A complex set of tiebreakers means even last-place Dartmouth (3-9), which last went to the N.C.A.A. men’s tournament in 1959, is still alive for a spot in conference tournament entering the final games. That is why Maldunas, who now plays professionally in Spain, will be following his alma mater intently.

“Of course, it makes me a little bit jealous, too,” he said, “because when I was there, we were already out of contention going into the last weekends.”

Jerry Krause, the general manager who orchestrated the Chicago Bulls’ dynasty of the 1990s, assembling the teams that Michael Jordan led to six N.B.A. championships, has died. He was 77.

The Bulls announced his death on Tuesday, giving no other details. The Chicago Tribune reported that he had been treated for osteomyelitis, a bone infection, among other health problems.

Krause never played or coached basketball, but he was an astute judge of talent as a scout for major league baseball teams and for N.B.A. organizations. He was hired to run the Bulls’ front office in March 1985 by Jerry Reinsdorf, their new owner, who had been an owner of the Chicago White Sox when Krause scouted for them a few years before.

Jordan was flashing the brilliance that would bring him acclaim as one of the greatest players in basketball history, but the Bulls lacked a strong lineup to complement him.

Krause went on to obtain talented players like Scottie Pippen, Charles Oakley, Bill Cartwright, Steve Kerr, Dennis Rodman, Horace Grant, Toni Kukoc and Ron Harper.

“One guy can’t win a championship — never been done,” Krause said after the Bulls won their first league title in 1991. “We needed guys who could help take the pressure off Michael and hit their shots and get the rebounds and hound on defense.”

Having scouted Phil Jackson for the Baltimore Bullets when Jackson played for North Dakota, then having lost out on him to the Knicks in the 1967 draft, Krause hired Jackson as an assistant coach in 1987, when he was languishing as a head coach in a minor pro circuit. Krause named Jackson head coach in 1989.

The Bulls won N.B.A. championships from 1991 to 1993 and — after Jordan left to play minor league baseball and then returned — from 1996 to 1998, all under Jackson and the free-flowing triangle offense he learned from the assistant coach Tex Winter.

After the 1997-98 season, Jordan retired for the second time (he later returned to the N.B.A. with the Washington Wizards), Pippen joined the Houston Rockets and Jackson left for Los Angeles to be the Lakers’ head coach, going on to win five championships with them.

Reinsdorf and Krause tried to rebuild with young players after those departures, but the Bulls had five losing seasons, and Krause resigned near the end of the 2002-3 season.

Krause, a two-time N.B.A. executive of the year, had a tense relationship with both Jordan and Jackson.

Jordan was especially annoyed when Krause traded Oakley, a rugged forward and his protector on the court, to the Knicks in a 1988 deal that brought center Bill Cartwright to the Bulls.

“You can never sell your soul to a player,” Krause told The New York Times in 2014. “Michael barked a lot to the press about the Oakley deal and later on about bringing over Toni Kukoc. To be honest, we never really talked about personnel, except when we brought in Dennis Rodman. But I always had Jerry Reinsdorf’s support to do what he hired me to do.”

Before the Bulls opened their 1997-98 season, in search of a sixth championship, Krause was quoted as saying that players and coaches do not win championships; organizations do. Krause said later that he had been misquoted when one word — “alone,” after “championships” — was dropped, but it seemed that he was promoting himself at the expense of Jordan and Jackson.

Krause seemed decidedly out of place in the company of tall and trim athletes. He was 5 feet 6 inches or so, jowly and rumpled, and he weighed upward of 230 pounds. Jordan needled him by calling him “crumbs,” for doughnut flakes that he claimed to have spotted on Krause’s jacket lapels.

Krause had a cool relationship with Chicago sportswriters, confiding little about his thinking. And he was not widely appreciated by Bulls fans, who were enthralled with Jordan’s heroics, not the front-office figures who dealt with his contract demands.

“Jerry always took that knock: ‘Anybody could have built a team around Michael,’” John Paxson, who had played for Krause, said when he succeeded him as general manager. “It was always unfair. Jerry, for some reason, never got the respect he deserved.”

Jerome Krause was born in 1939 in Chicago, where his parents, Paul and Gertrude, owned a deli and later a shoe store. He was a second-string catcher at Taft High School, then attended Bradley University hoping to become a journalist. He was a student assistant to the basketball coach, charting plays, then quit school to pursue a career in sports and was hired as a “flunky,” as he told it, with the Chicago Cubs.

He began to scout for baseball and basketball teams, and while working for the Bullets, he drafted Earl Monroe out of little-known Winston-Salem State in 1967. He became a Bulls scout late in the 1960s and had a brief stint as their director of player personnel in 1976.

Krause was hired as a scout in 1978 by Bill Veeck, the White Sox owner, and three years later began working for Reinsdorf and Eddie Einhorn when they took over the team. He persuaded management to obtain Ozzie Guillen, their future All-Star shortstop and manager, from the San Diego Padres’ organization.

After leaving pro basketball, he returned to baseball, scouting for the Yankees, the Mets and the Arizona Diamondbacks.

Krause is survived by his wife, Thelma; his two children, Stacy and David; and four grandchildren, the Bulls said.

For all the championships he helped bring to the Bulls as an executive, Krause never forgot his first love in the sports world.

“My father is buried three gravestones from a stone: ‘Here lies the heart and soul of a newsreel cameraman,’” Krause told The Chicago Sun-Times in 2003. “When I die and they put up my stone, I want it to say, ‘Here lies the heart and soul of a scout.’”