Breanna Stewart sat in the visitors’ locker room at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night in an unfamiliar position.

Stewart had just put on a dynamic exhibition, scoring 24 points with 16 rebounds and playing all five positions, but her Seattle Storm had nevertheless lost, 78-74, to the Liberty. The Storm (7-12) had dropped three straight before they defeated the San Antonio Stars on Friday.

Over the last four years, Stewart had experienced a total of five losses when wearing the blue and white jersey of the University of Connecticut. Her senior class was the first to win four national titles, and Stewart was named the most outstanding player in the Final Four each time.

As Stewart has quickly discovered, there is a difference between stardom in college and life in the W.N.B.A. Losing is frustrating but not quite unexpected, she said. She is still, however, acclimating to the demands of being the top overall pick in the league’s draft in April. Having entered the W.N.B.A. with a pedigree as one of college basketball’s greatest players, Stewart also carries expectations that she will be a pillar on which the Storm can build for the next decade.

“It’s funny — I think that sometimes I forget that I’m a rookie,” she said. “I forget this is my first two months in the league, just because of the expectations I have on myself, along with other things surrounding that.”

Despite being matched against players more accomplished than those she usually faced in college, Stewart remains a marvel. Against Tina Charles and the Liberty, the W.N.B.A.’s top defensive team last year, Stewart was able to angle her 6-foot-4 frame for unblockable fadeaway shots in the post. She displayed seasoned instincts when cutting past defenders for a pass and, while still in motion, deflecting the ball with one hand to an open teammate waiting in the corner. For good measure, Stewart also threw in a Dream Shake under the basket, the trademark move of the Hall of Famer Hakeem Olajuwon.

Those plays are examples of why Golden State Warriors forward Draymond Green has studied the W.N.B.A. in an effort to refine his own game. They are also the polished work of a player who, at 21, may already have a talent level that the league, in its 20th season, has never seen. (Seattle’s Sue Bird, also a UConn alum, compared Stewart to a combination of Elena Delle Donne, last year’s most valuable player, and Lauren Jackson, a three-time M.V.P. recently named one of the league’s top 20 players ever.)

Despite these virtues, a burdensome question will shadow Stewart this season and beyond: Can she be a transformative player who singularly increases the popularity of women’s basketball in the United States?

Unfair as it may be to expect Stewart to immediately draw sellout crowds and boost television ratings, she acknowledged the hopes being placed on her, and she has already pondered her role as a driving force in women’s professional sports.

“While I was in college, I still knew what was going on at the next level and that kind of thing,” said Stewart, who was named rookie of the month for the second time on Thursday and was averaging 18.8 points a game with 9.6 rebounds. “The ‘separate but equal’ is the best way to describe things. Obviously, what’s going on in the N.B.A. and the W.N.B.A. is different — it’s completely different. But that doesn’t mean it can’t be equal.”

There are early indications that Stewart is making an impact. According to the Storm, the team had a 14 percent increase in ticket sales for its home opener compared with last season, and a 15 percent increase in merchandise sales — driven by Stewart apparel — for the game. The Storm have also had a 100 percent increase in average viewership on local television compared with last year.

“I don’t know if I’ve seen a player that is as recognized as she is everywhere, all over the country, every airport, every airplane, and just the diversity of demographics that are drawn to her and clearly want her picture, want her autograph,” Storm Coach Jenny Boucek said. “It’s pretty cool to see a female athlete have that notoriety, No. 1, and that respect. It’s really good for our game.”

On Wednesday, Storm or UConn fans made up a majority of the group-sales ticketholders who were allowed early entry to the Garden, and many took photographs of Stewart during warm-ups. The announced attendance of 9,852 was higher than for games that had featured Maya Moore, Candace Parker and Diana Taurasi, but still only about half of the arena’s capacity.

In terms of her play, Stewart is often compared to Kevin Durant. On June 28, while Durant’s impending free agency dominated basketball discussions, Stewart scored 38 points in a win over the Atlanta Dream.

Stewart does not complain about what may be unreasonable expectations — at UConn, winning national championships also included preparation for the professional spotlight. In fact, the exposure she received in college may have been greater than what she is getting in the W.N.B.A.

Swin Cash, a veteran of 15 W.N.B.A. seasons and a four-time All-Star who won two titles at UConn, said the pressure placed on a player of Stewart’s magnitude was fair.

“Absolutely,” Cash said. “To who much is given, much is required.”

The transition out of college has been difficult for Stewart at times. In Seattle, she enjoys the freedom of living alone, but she also laments having to find new friends. Her parents call and visit, and Bird has become a mentor. UConn Coach Geno Auriemma texts Stewart regularly to give advice and help her through some of the frustrations of losing.

As demonstrated by the back-to-back games the Storm played during the week, Stewart’s schedule is grinding. After winning the fourth championship with the Huskies, she was immediately drafted. As soon as she finished college, she began training with Seattle. Next month, she will play in the Olympics.

“It seems like a lot of things just keep coming at me, but that’s part of it,” said Stewart, who is near the completion of a multiyear endorsement deal with Nike. “It gets hard, but I think for me, I try to take it one day at a time.”

OAKLAND, Calif. — As soon as I got to Oracle Arena last week for the first game of the N.B.A. finals, I started scanning the floor for tech bigwigs.

Basketball has always been accommodative of celebrity culture — the small arena and the courtside seats make seeing and being seen one of the central perks of high-dollar tickets. In an earlier time, Jack Nicholson became a fixture at Lakers games, while the Knicks claimed Spike Lee and Woody Allen as all but official mascots.

Now, in Oakland, the Golden State Warriors have … Eddy Cue.

Who is Eddy Cue? He is Apple’s senior vice president for internet software and services — blame him for iTunes. He was the first boldface name I spotted, courtside center, bouncing up and down like a giddy 10-year-old as Stephen Curry and the Warriors gang took their warm-up shots. A few nights earlier, when the Warriors beat the Oklahoma City Thunder in a come-from-behind miracle, Mr. Cue ended up on the cover of The San Francisco Chronicle looking gleefully unhinged in his celebrations.

With Silicon Valley just a short Tesla drive away from Oracle Arena, Mr. Cue is far from the only techie losing his mind over the Warriors. The team is owned by a coalition of tech investors, and on any given night, you will find a passel of executives, venture capitalists and other assorted billionaires cheering from the sidelines.

Longtime fans suffered decades of heartache with this team, but for many here now, especially the transplants who came to the Bay Area to work in software and hardware, the Warriors seemed to come out of nowhere. They are a juggernaut with a modern, disruptive style of play that is consuming everything in its path — an ideal mascot for an industry whose defining mantra is to mercilessly eat the world.

Yet success has had its costs. Thanks to bandwagon fans like me, ticket prices have soared, leaving longtime ticket holders fuming. Gentrification has already begun, and it is bound to get worse. Soon the team will move to an exclusive new arena in San Francisco, abandoning its roots in an industrial area of Oakland.

In other words, you can almost see the Warriors as a metaphor for the way the tech industry improves, but also unexpectedly risks ruining, pretty much everything it touches.

“One of the tensions that exists with the Warriors now is the owners seem to have a feeling that, ‘Oh, we bought this team, they got really good, but we do live in a market where there are people who are accustomed to paying ever-increasing prices for everything, so let’s raise the prices for our tickets,’” said Josh Williams, a designer and basketball fanatic who holds Warriors season tickets. “I do have a real concern that we might price out the quote-unquote real fans.”

Mr. Williams is a recent convert to Warriors fandom. He moved to the Bay Area from Austin, Tex., a few years ago after selling his start-up, Gowalla, to Facebook. His seats, in the upper corner of the arena, cost about $50 a game, and are set to go up by about 40 percent next season.

Prices have become a bigger issue in the last few weeks, as the Warriors landed in the finals against the Cleveland Cavaliers. For the finals, the team sent prices through the roof.

Mr. Williams’s not-great corner tickets rose to $400 from $50. Pretty good first-level seats — which during the regular season go for under $200 — are selling for a face-value of $1,000 to $2,000. On the secondary market, the tickets are going for much more. One anonymous fan purchased a pair of courtside seats for Game 7 of the Western Conference finals for $58,000. ESPN reported that several members of the Cavaliers declined to purchase tickets for their families at Game 1 and 2 of the finals because prices were just too high.

Given the prices and the team’s connection with tech, I expected the crowd at Warriors games to resemble a venture capital firm’s cocktail party — young, vaguely geeky, demure business types, mostly white, mostly men. I also felt a sense of embarrassment for jumping on the bandwagon. A couple of years ago, I barely knew the rules of basketball, but as the team kept defying odds and breaking records, I got a bad case of Warriors fever.

Yet the crowd at the two games I attended this year, including the first finals game, was not a bunch of bandwagoners like myself. Warriors fandom is one of the few Bay Area experiences that still seems to cut across a wide swath of the population. The people who attend the games seem diverse in just about every way — by race, age, willingness to yell out and make a fool of oneself — except one: pretty much everyone wears a yellow Warriors T-shirt, and pretty much everyone looks overjoyed to be there.

Katie Jansen, the chief marketing officer of a start-up called AppLovin, which owns a suite at the arena that it shares with employees and customers, echoed that idea.

“I’ve met the owners of a suite a few suites down from us, and it’s literally a bunch of Oakland natives, a group of men who’ve been Warriors fans their whole lives, and they’ve owned this box for 30 years,” she said.

Many of the techies who now flock to Oakland told me they love this vibe. “There is a real die-hard fan base there in Oakland, and there’s something special happening in that arena right now,” said Craig Butler, Spotify’s newly hired vice president for engineering, who owns season tickets with a few of his buddies. “The energy level at Oracle right now is double what it is anywhere else — it’s just the best show in town.”

And according to the team, the fan base isn’t changing. Despite price increases, about 99.5 percent of season ticket holders decided to renew for next year — meaning only 23 people did not renew. The wait-list for season tickets is now over 30,000 names long. Many fans are likely gratified by the fact that their tickets are a good investment even at current prices.

On average last year, Warriors tickets could be resold for 119 percent above face price, so a $100 ticket would fetch $219 on the secondary market, meaning that if you bought a season’s pass and sold half your tickets, you would most likely recoup your investment.

But how do you preserve the fan base as the entry price rises? The problem for the Warriors resembles, in broad strokes, the problem of housing in the Bay Area. There is a finite supply of tickets to the games, and in an industry that produces astonishing wealth, there will always be enough people with enough money to pay nearly any price for tickets.

Basketball is a business, of course, and it is within the Warriors owners’ rights to profit from the team’s amazing success.

“Most people who spend hundreds of millions of dollars on something, they want to get a return on their investment,” Andrew Zimbalist, an economist who studies sports at Smith College, told me with some exasperation when I asked him if there was some way for the team to avoid raising prices and changing its fan culture now that it has found success.

But there is a way. Owners could simply not try to suck up every available penny they can find. With insane TV deals, corporate signs and many other revenue opportunities, there is a lot of money in basketball besides in tickets.

Another plan would be to increase ticket prices only on the wealthy. Mr. Williams, a lifelong fan of the Dallas Mavericks, pointed out that when Mark Cuban, another tech billionaire, purchased and revitalized that team, he went out of his way to keep ticket prices low.

“One year my season tickets cost $24 a ticket, and I got my renewal package and they had dropped the price to $14,” Mr. Williams said. “It turned out what Mark was doing was jacking up the price on the lower bowl, where he knew the purchases were corporations, and reducing the price on the real fans upstairs.”

In an email, Mr. Cuban confirmed that strategy.

“We have decreased prices across the board multiple times,” he said. “The only tickets that have gone up marginally are our best seats.” He added: “I don’t run the Mavs to maximize profits. We now make money. But it’s more important to me that fans can always afford to come to games.”

Well, how’s that for disruption?

OAKLAND, Calif. — The Golden State Warriors will forever be known as one of the most talented teams in the history of the N.B.A., along with a hefty set of other superlatives: most dominant, most dazzling, most adept at hitting shots from distant galaxies. But for all their astonishing skill, the Warriors were determined, too.

Determined to make amends for last season. Determined to escape the clutches of LeBron James. And determined to restore themselves as champions.

On Monday night, before an exultant crowd at Oracle Arena, where gold confetti fluttered from the ceiling at the final buzzer, the Warriors put the last dab of polish on a gilded season by surging to their second championship in three years with a 129-120 victory over the Cleveland Cavaliers in Game 5 of the N.B.A. finals.

Golden State won the best-of-seven series by four games to one, capping a commanding postseason run. The Warriors went 16-1, their lone loss coming to the Cavaliers in Game 4, and largely turned a succession of high-powered opponents into stage props. It was the basketball equivalent of lapping the field.

After two lopsided losses, the Cavaliers at least made the series competitive and highly entertaining. But the Warriors’ star power — including Kevin Durant, whom they signed last summer for expressly this pressure-cooker purpose — prevailed over James, Kyrie Irving and the rest of the Cavaliers.

“It feels amazing to win a championship with these guys,” Durant said. “I can’t wait to celebrate for the rest of the night — well, maybe the rest of the summer.”

On Monday, Durant was at his long-limbed best, doing his part to snuff every rally that the Cavaliers could muster. He scored 39 points and was named the series’ most valuable player. With about 55 seconds left, Durant could sense that he was getting lost in the moment.

“Is this really happening?” he recalled asking himself.

Stephen Curry had 34 points and 10 assists in the win. The Warriors also got a huge game from Andre Iguodala, who scored 20 points off the bench in addition to defending James for long stretches.

James delivered the Full LeBron: 41 points, 13 rebounds and 8 assists, a typical postseason effort for him. Irving scored 26 points, and J. R. Smith added 25.

“I have no reason to look back at what I could have done or what I should have done or what I could have done better for the team,” said James, who averaged a triple-double during the series — 33.6 points, 12 rebounds and 10 assists. “I left everything I had out on the floor every single game for five games in these finals, and you come up short.”

The teams were coming off two tightly contested games in Cleveland, where the Cavaliers had salvaged some hope. On Monday, the Warriors took an 11-point lead into the second half. After the Cavaliers cut it to 4 late in the third quarter, Durant connected on a 3-pointer, and the crowd seemed to exhale.

The Warriors maintained their cushion in the fourth. After the Cavaliers’ Kyle Korver made a 3-pointer, Durant got inside for a dunk. Curry followed that by whipping a pass to Iguodala for another slam, and the Warriors were up by 10. Inside the building, cautious optimism gave way to full-blown jubilation as the final minutes ticked away.

“Winning a championship is so hard,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said. “And when you do it, you just get nine months of all this work and you can finally let loose.”

This was the third straight finals meeting between the Warriors and the Cavaliers. After Golden State won in 2015, Cleveland put together an unprecedented comeback to take the championship last season. That series, which went a full seven games, was packed with drama and ended with James leading the Cavaliers to their first title in franchise history.

It was a deflating end for the Warriors, who had set a record by winning 73 games in the regular season. But they regrouped last summer by luring Durant away from the Oklahoma City Thunder in free agency. Kerr and his All-Star cast met with Durant in the Hamptons on Long Island and sold him on a delicious future: the chance to win multiple titles, to be a key cog on a forever team.

The addition of Durant was not universally celebrated. Durant was accused by some of pursuing the easiest path to a championship. The Warriors, too, were criticized for somehow becoming too good, for creating a parity problem — as if they should have passed on the chance to sign Durant out of concern for the good of the league.

It was a curious argument — teams generally do whatever they can to win — and the Warriors, with Durant in the mix, treated their regular-season opponents like roadkill.

They stuck to that script through the first three rounds of the playoffs. The Warriors swept the Portland Trail Blazers, the Utah Jazz and the San Antonio Spurs. If the Warriors got some breaks — Kawhi Leonard, the Spurs’ best player, missed the last three games of the Western Conference finals with a sprained ankle — they dealt with adversity, too.

In the first round, Kerr stepped away from his day-to-day duties to seek treatment for complications stemming from back surgery. Without him on the bench, the Warriors won 11 straight games under Mike Brown — an assistant who became the acting head coach — including the finals opener against Cleveland. Kerr returned for Game 2, and the team kept humming.

As their series against the Cavaliers wore on, the Warriors found themselves fending off more than just the Cavaliers. Several former N.B.A. stars piped up to make the case that their old teams could have beaten the Warriors. Among them: Magic Johnson, who contended that the Los Angeles Lakers of the Showtime era would have swept Golden State. Kerr, in turn, brushed those comments aside.

“They would all kill us,” Kerr said, deadpan, last week. “The game gets worse as time goes on. Players are less talented than they used to be. The guys in the ’50s would’ve destroyed everybody. It’s weird how human evolution goes in reverse in sports. Players get weaker, smaller, less skilled. I don’t know. I can’t explain it.”

For Game 5, the Cavaliers broke out their black “shirseys,” the same uniforms they had worn here for their greatest triumph: Game 7 of last year’s finals. And they played fearless basketball once again, sinking six of their first seven field-goal attempts. They led by as many as 8 in the first quarter.

But the Warriors rallied, scoring 15 straight points to take a 54-43 lead in the second quarter. Durant, who was exceptional in the first half, scoring 21 points while shooting 7 of 10 from the field, made a 3-pointer to push the lead to 15. The first half also featured a few extracurriculars, including a scuffle that starred the Warriors’ David West. Golden State took a 71-60 lead into halftime.

The Warriors, despite their mass of individual talent, were a true collaboration. Consider their willingness to pass the ball in the finals: 147 assists on 216 field goals. The Cavaliers, who leaned so heavily on James and Irving, had just 108 assists on 208 field goals.

Durant, of course, gave his new team the biggest assist of all.

Elation and confusion are an unusual combination for victorious sports fans. But in New Haven and throughout the broader Yale community, the “We won!” euphoria of winning an N.C.A.A. tournament basketball game on Thursday quickly gave way to, “What did we win, exactly?” and “Can someone explain why this basketball game was so important?”

Yale has produced presidents and Supreme Court justices, Academy Award winners and Nobel Prize laureates. But until Thursday, it had not appeared in the men’s tournament since 1962 and had never won a game there. So forgive the Yalies if they need a minute to get the hang of this.

“I am all in support of Yale sports,” said Tao Tao Holmes, a 2014 graduate who works at the website Atlas Obscura. “I just have never really followed them.”

She has company. Payne Whitney Gymnasium, which Yale describes as “a nine-story, Gothic-style building” and which is where the Bulldogs play their home games, is hardly a campus hot spot. Average attendance was a little over 1,500 this season, a spokesman said.

Perry Bacon Jr., class of 2002, an NBC News political reporter, had not been aware until Sunday that his alma mater was in the tournament. (Yale clinched its berth eight days earlier.)

Mr. Bacon learned that the score of Yale’s game against Baylor on Thursday was close from former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont, class of 1971, who was set to appear on MSNBC just after Mr. Bacon. Upon finishing his segment, Mr. Bacon watched the last few minutes, and Mr. Dean joined him after completing his own segment.

“The two of us watched together, the final 30 seconds or so,” Mr. Bacon said. “We became very intense fans, cheering every free throw Yale made, even though I could not name a single player on the team.”

Mr. Bacon added: “I saw Yale’s coach on the screen and was like, ‘Oh, that’s the same coach from when I was there.’ But I did not know his name. In fact, I still don’t.” (Coach James Jones is in his 17th season at Yale.)

Ms. Holmes said she had noticed “tons and tons” of her Yale friends altering their Facebook profile pictures recently so that one corner had the N.C.A.A.’s March Madness logo and another had the familiar block Y and snarling Bulldog of their shared alma mater. The bandwagon was filling up, even if many did not quite know how to get on.

Wendy D’Amico, class of 1993, attended the game in Providence, R.I., where she lives. She had not really been following the season until the past couple of weeks. “We went because we felt we had to seize the opportunity,” Ms. D’Amico said, “because it only happens every half-century or so.”

Many people connected to the university were familiar with the basketball program only by virtue of a recent episode of infamy: The team’s captain, Jack Montague, was expelled last month in connection with an allegation of sexual misconduct, which he disputes.

“I was much more aware of that than March Madness,” Ms. Holmes said.

Others, like James Feldman, class of 1992, an entertainment lawyer in Los Angeles, were drawn to one of the team’s charming subplots: Brandon Sherrod took last year off from the basketball team to sing and tour with a Yale institution of much greater renown, the Whiffenpoofs, an a cappella group.

“That was an amazing thing to me,” said Mr. Feldman, a former Whiffenpoofs president. “That was my hook.”

Still others were blissfully unaware. Mari Hinojosa, a member of the class of 1994 who is development director for the organization Lawyers for Children, said she was “not sure it’s possible to be more unaware of sports than I am,” but nonetheless, upon hearing of the victory, “cheered and put on my Yale T-shirt, which is literally the only item of clothing I own that has any writing on it.”

To any hard-core college basketball fan — one monitoring more than a dozen games on Thursday, from noon to midnight — Yale’s upset of Baylor was an exciting development, but not an altogether shocking one. Yale was 13-1 in the increasingly competitive Ivy League. And in the N.C.A.A. tournament, No. 12 seeds have been known to knock off No. 5 seeds.

But Yale fans are rarely described as hard-core college basketball fans. As Mr. Feldman put it, “I don’t follow college sports ever, but if Yale is going to go to the tournament, then I tune in.”

To be fair, Yale alumni are not alone in their lack of profound interest in college basketball.

Though the men’s basketball championship remains popular, with millions of television viewers and billions of dollars wagered, regular-season TV ratings are down, and the sport has become comparatively a niche attraction.

Much of the tournament’s broad appeal is what Yale experienced Thursday — upstarts beating traditional powers that operate with immense athletic budgets. Often those feel-good stories are snuffed out after the first week, and casual fans tune out.

That fate is expected to befall Yale, too. Its next opponent, on Saturday, is Duke — a program that over the past few decades has produced basketball championships about as often as Yale has produced heads of state. Oddsmakers favor Duke to win by 6 points.

But the Bulldogs have already exceeded expectations.

“My 6-year-old twin daughters wanted to pick Yale in their school bracket,” said David Franklin, a professor of constitutional law at DePaul who graduated from Yale in 1990. “Like an idiot, I vetoed it.”

Armel Le Cléac’h held off a late surge from the British sailor Alex Thomson to win the Vendée Globe round-the-world race on Thursday with a record time.

Le Cléac’h, a Frenchman, finished the race in 74 days. François Gabart set the previous record of 78 days in the 2012-13 edition of the race, which is held every four years and sailed entirely without assistance.

Le Cléac’h, the runner-up in the previous two races, stood up on his boat, pumped his fist and threw both arms up in the air as he crossed the finish line in Les Sables d’Olonne, France.

“It’s huge — the emotion is incredible,” he said. “I can’t really take on board what just happened.”

Thomson had been trying to become the first British sailor to win the event. This week, he set a world record for the greatest distance sailed solo in 24 hours when he covered 536.8 miles to narrow the gap on Le Cléac’h, the seventh Frenchman to win the race in its eight editions.

The Miami Marlins traded two of their top pitching prospects to acquire immediate rotation help.

Miami obtained Dan Straily from the Cincinnati Reds for three minor leaguers, including the right-handers Luis Castillo and Austin Brice, both highly regarded prospects in the Marlins’ thin system. Outfielder Isaiah White was also dealt to Cincinnati.

Straily had the best year of his career in 2016, when he went 14-8 for the last-place Reds with a 3.76 E.R.A.

With a blistering first 14 minutes against Zimbabwe, Senegal raced into the quarterfinals of the African Cup of Nations, while a woeful 16 second-half minutes against Tunisia took Algeria to the brink of elimination.

Nearly halfway through the group stage, Senegal produced the most compelling argument so far for the status of title favorite when Sadio Mané and Henri Saivet scored in an overpowering start against Zimbabwe that gave the Senegalese a 2-0 victory.

Algeria was as woeful in defense as Senegal was wonderful in attack and surrendered two soft goals in 16 minutes a 2-1 loss to Tunisia.

COPA DEL REY Barcelona’s 10-year winless run at Real Sociedad ended with a 1-0 victory in a first-leg quarterfinal. The only goal came on a first-half penalty kick by Neymar.  Goals by Antoine Griezmann, Ángel Correa and Kevin Gameiro moved Atlético Madrid into position to advance with a 3-0 win over visiting Eibar in a first-leg quarterfinal.

ITALIAN CUP Roma is on course to face its intercity rival Lazio in the semifinals after easing past Sampdoria, 4-0, in the round of 16. Roma next faces the second-division club Cesena, while Lazio visits Inter Milan in the quarterfinals.

Sacramento Kings forward Rudy Gay will need season-ending surgery to repair a ruptured left Achilles’ tendon.

The Kings said that Gay had a full rupture of the tendon and would have surgery in the next few days. Gay was hurt in the third quarter of Wednesday night’s game against Indiana. He is the second-leading scorer for the Kings, averaging 18.7 points and 6.3 rebounds per game.

LABOR DEAL IS OFFICIAL The N.B.A. and the National Basketball Players Association announced that they had signed the collective bargaining agreement that was ratified last month. The seven-year agreement will begin on July 1 and run through the 2023-24 season.

(AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

“Phenomenal” was how Phil Mickelson described his first round of golf since he recovered from two operations. He carded a four-under-par 68 at the CareerBuilder Challenge in La Quinta, Calif.

Mickelson mixed five birdies with a lone bogey in the opening round of the pro-am event. “It’s a perfect place to start the year,” he said.  (REUTERS)

Sam Auxier, the president of United States Figure Skating, said that Russia should be barred from the 2018 Olympics because of accusations of a mass doping cover-up at the Sochi Games three years ago.

Richard McLaren, an investigator for the World Anti-Doping Agency, has said there is evidence that doping test samples given by 12 Russian medal winners at the 2014 Olympics were tampered with. Leaders from 19 national antidoping agencies have argued that Russia should be excluded from all international sports events, including next year’s Winter Games in South Korea.

Auxier added his voice to the chorus at the United States figure skating championships in Kansas City, Mo. “I don’t think they should be able to” compete, he said. “It was state-sponsored. It was a huge program, well-coordinated to cheat, and they should pay a pretty stiff penalty.”

SAN FRANCISCO — Until last summer, Kevin Durant was certainly famous, but maybe not famous enough.

Here was a perennial N.B.A. All-Star and former most valuable player who had been ranked No. 4 on GQ’s list of the most stylish players in N.B.A. history. He had a reported $300 million endorsement deal with Nike, and Lifetime had even made a movie about his mother, “The Real MVP: The Wanda Durant Story.”

Even so, every article on Mr. Durant seemed to boil down to this: He was too nice. And super-duper-stars aren’t “nice.”

That narrative persisted until last June, when Mr. Durant, who had spent eight years dutifully toiling in small-market Oklahoma City for the Thunder, became one of the most heavily courted free agents in league history. The bidding war for his services was like a sports-world variation of “The Bachelor.”

As Mr. Durant holed up in the Hamptons with his agent, Rich Kleiman, to field pitches, the league’s glamour teams descended, dangling monster contracts and a chance at movie-star-scale celebrity. The Boston Celtics even brought along Tom Brady to flash a Super Bowl ring. Even so, no one ever thought he would really leave his heartland home. He was too, you know, nice.

But he did. Not only did he set in motion one of the great superstar divorces in league history with his old point guard, Russell Westbrook, but he joined the juggernaut Golden State Warriors, a longtime punching bag that had transformed into the Google of pro basketball. Last season, they won a record 73 regular-season games; featured Stephen Curry, the back-to-back league M.V.P.; and beat the Thunder in the playoffs a month before.

At last, he was famous enough, or at least mass-market enough, to land on the cover of Rolling Stone. But the league’s equivalent of Luke Skywalker was also recast as Darth Vader, villain 1A on a team of supervillains. He may have been the most scrutinized athlete in America.

But the funny thing about being in the eye of the hurricane? It’s surprisingly calm there.

Eight months after the decision that rocked the sporting world, Mr. Durant, 28, a starter in Sunday’s N.B.A. All-Star Game, is easing into a new life as a new face of the Warriors, a brash brand of disrupters armed with Google-scale ambition that has been called “tech's team.” He drives a Tesla, pals around with the Silicon Valley’s A-list and is laying the foundation for a tech empire of his own.

Here is a look at Mr. Durant’s life in the Bay Area over a recent two-day stretch between big wins against the Cleveland Cavaliers and the Thunder, as he made the rounds as arguably the hottest start-up in Silicon Valley.

It was early afternoon on an unseasonably warm winter Tuesday, and Mr. Durant was in high spirits, barreling down the Bayshore Freeway in a black Cadillac Escalade on the way to a speaking engagement at YouTube’s headquarters in San Bruno, Calif.

That morning, Mr. Durant was the centerpiece a lavish groundbreaking ceremony for the Chase Center, the $1 billion pleasure dome on the San Francisco waterfront that the team plans to occupy by 2019.

But now he was hungry, so he and Mr. Kleiman dropped in to the nearest restaurant they could find, which was Jack’s, a family restaurant and bar near the YouTube campus.

With his six-foot-infinity frame and impossibly long legs, Mr. Durant seemed to swallow a yard of real estate with each stride. As an eight-time N.B.A. All-Star seemingly dressed for Pitti Uomo (he wore a blue custom suit, a striped pocket square and white Common Projects sneakers), Mr. Durant certainly stood out in the wood-beam suburban sports bar where a number of diners were decked out in blue-and-gold Warriors gear.

But even though Jack’s that day looked like a Durant-themed hall of mirrors, with clips of his epic rejection of a LeBron James shot from the day before flickering on TVs, he was able to walk unmolested through the busy restaurant and take a seat in a rear booth for a plate of boneless hot wings.

Mr. Durant is comfortable with the level of scrutiny he receives in the Bay Area, meaning, not too much. “Hey, it’s not L.A., it’s not New York,” he said. “It’s somewhere in between.”

Although he has appeared on magazine covers for a decade, he still carries himself like a teenager. He slouched in the booth with his shoulders slumped, face buried in his iPhone before the food arrived.

Once the conversation did start, however, Mr. Durant sounded pensive, introspective. Unlike many M.V.P.-caliber athletes who seem to field every question seemingly looking for the quickest exit strategy, Mr. Durant paused to consider each question, and he seemed unafraid to open up, despite his natural shyness.

“I didn’t really have friends,” Mr. Durant said of his childhood in Seat Pleasant, Md., which neighbors Washington. “I was quiet. I was awkward-sized.”

Raised by a single mother in a rough neighborhood, Mr. Durant said he “didn’t look the part” of a cool kid, adding that, “It made it easy for me to not worry about the social life and just play basketball.”

“That’s the gift and the curse of being an athlete that is so dedicated at an early age, you forget about real life sometimes,” he said. “So I’m just in the last few years starting to feel comfortable to meet new people, going out in groups, meeting new girls, hanging out. That stuff was foreign to me until a few years back.”

Near the end of the lunch, a petite woman in a Warriors jersey trailing two eager children approached the booth. “Excuse me, Kevin?” she asked diffidently. But a man in his security detail whisked her away before he could respond.

Upon leaving the booth, however, Mr. Durant demonstrated his growing ease with fame among his adopted family of Warriors fans, making a beeline toward the woman’s table to graciously pose for selfies with the family.

“They can feel how much heat that I got from coming here,” he said of his controversial move to Bay Area. “They’re trying to make me feel at peace.”

Fifteen minutes later, the Escalade pulled into a parking garage beneath the sprawling YouTube campus. Mr. Durant had no time for a plunge down the office’s 45-foot-long red slide, sink a 10-footer on the indoor putting green or grab a quick snooze in a Kubrickian, white-plastic “nap pod.” After all, he was the employee perk that day.

He proceeded to an auditorium that was filled to capacity with YouTube employees, some of them looking barely old enough to vote, let alone drink, and took a seat onstage across from Neal Mohan, YouTube’s chief product officer, who was moderating an employees-only question-and-answer session that was live-streamed to YouTube and Google offices around the world.

Flashing a $59,000 Vacheron Constantin watch, Mr. Durant did not exactly fit the profile of the skinny-armed tech programmer. But he cast himself as just another member of the YouTube generation, talking about his obsession with Grand Theft Auto V, hip-hop and, of course, YouTube. “I’m sure you guys know, you want to look at one quick video and it turns into four or five hours,” he said. “It’s pretty dangerous, that app.”

When an audience member asked if he planned to try acting, like the Los Angeles Clippers’ Blake Griffin or the Cavaliers’ LeBron James, Mr. Durant snorted sarcastically, “If anybody could do it, it’s Blake Griffin and LeBron.” The audience erupted in laughter, since both players are considered Oscar-worthy on-court floppers. Mr. Durant, holding back a chuckle, insisted that he was talking about their impressive work in commercials and movies.

Then the talk took a more serious turn. Asked if he is plugging himself into the Bay Area tech scene, Mr. Durant responded that he is eagerly following the lead of a Warriors teammate, Andre Iguodala, who is a noted investor in companies like Twitter, Facebook and Tesla.

Last summer, in fact, Mr. Durant and Mr. Kleiman unveiled a start-up of their own, the Durant Company, with a swelling portfolio of investments in tech companies like Postmates and Acorns, in addition to hotels and restaurants and film and television development. They are also investing with Ronald Conway, one of Silicon Valley’s “super angel” investors and a front-row fixture at Oracle Arena (the Warriors’ current home in Oakland), and consulting with Laurene Powell Jobs, Steve Jobs’s widow, on his own charity foundation.

In a sense, Mr. Durant is not wholly unlike the legions of ambitious 20-somethings in hoodies and cool sneakers who descend on Silicon Valley to make hundreds of millions.

The only difference is, he has already made hundreds of millions.

The next day, Mr. Durant was piloting his black Tesla Model S up a windy road in the Oakland Hills, after the Warriors’ morning shootaround. It was around noon on game day, the second meeting of the season with his former team, the Thunder. He seemed more distant that day, his voice quieter, raspier.

Dressed in a gray Warriors hoodie, he steered into a hilltop cul-de-sac and pulled into a driveway of his sleek contemporary-style house, where he hopped out, plugged in the Tesla, and headed into the house through a garage where his black labradoodle Ro was resting peacefully.

As his private chef hunched over the stove, preparing a game-day pasta meal, Mr. Durant slumped into the world’s longest sectional sofa and stared out the soaring windows, which were rattling from the wind, toward downtown Oakland in the distance. He chose the house for the view.

“It’s beautiful to be on top of everything, see it from a different perspective,” he said, “because I was at the bottom growing up.”

Mr. Durant has been living in the 10,000-square-foot rental for only a few months, and as a bachelor who spends half his time on the road, it has a temporary feel to it. The white lilies on the kitchen table were silk, the fiddle-leaf fig plant in the corner of the family room was plastic.

Still, it was decorated in a style that might be called Sports Superstar Moderne: the stark white walls are festooned with abstract Expressionist artwork, with ample trophies on display. The house has a home recording studio, a recreation room littered with Washington Redskins memorabilia, a movie theater that seats 16, and a walk-in closet devoted to sneakers.

Mr. Durant padded barefoot past his hangar-size master bedroom, into another vast closet where he keeps his custom suits, jewelry and watches. The real treasure there, however, was his swelling collection of vintage concert T-shirts from the 1980s and ’90s — Nas, Biggie, Metallica, Stone Cold Steve Austin. “I take pride in my collection,” he said.

Old T-shirts may seem like an odd obsession for a player who helped pioneer the neo-preppy nerd-chic look (bow ties, Urkel-style glasses and backpacks) that swept the league a few years ago. In 2013, he even covered All-Star weekend as a fashion correspondent for GQ.

But what’s the point of looking runway-ready in a culture where Mark Zuckerberg’s sweatshirt sets the tone? Mr. Durant feels more at home in the Silicon Valley-approved wardrobe of jeans, sneakers and hoodies.

“Fashion,” he said, “is what you make of it.”

Back in the family room, Mr. Durant paused in front of his frame wall containing a moody black-and-white photograph showing three clenched fists, each with a small triangle tattoo at the base of the thumb. One fist was Mr. Durant’s, another belongs to Charlie Bell, a childhood friend who is now a top executive at Jay Z’s agency, Roc Nation, and third to Mr. Kleiman, who still represents Mr. Durant through Jay Z’s Roc Nation Sports and is also working for him directly as his manager and partner in the Durant Company.

The photo is a reminder to himself about real friendship, Mr. Durant said. His social world had shrunken since his controversial move.

“When you make it to the league, especially from where I’m from, it’s like everybody made it,” Mr. Durant said. “I can remember times going to a club, I had 30 people with me. I’m thinking to myself, this was never me. But if you’ve never had the support outwardly like that, people showing you affection in your face, love in your face, even if it’s fake, you try to grab that because it feels good for the moment.

“Now, it’s us three.”

He may be rounding the math a little bit. Mr. Durant may have called off his engagement with Monica Wright, a W.N.B.A. player, and dialed back the entourage, but he goes out often after games in San Francisco and is quickly making friends with the tech titans who populate Oracle Arena’s version of celebrity row.

In September, he celebrated his birthday at a lavish barbecue at the house of Ben Horowitz, the influential venture capitalist and business partner of Marc Andreessen. Two months later, he watched the election results at the home of Eddy Cue, Apple’s senior vice president for internet software and services, along with Tim Cook, Apple chief executive, and Pharrell Williams.

“I think that’s why a lot of athletes and entertainers work well with some of those guys, because for one, they all had humble beginnings,” Mr. Durant said. “They built something from the ground up, so they can relate to us.”

Minutes before he was ready to settle down for his 2 p.m. nap, Mr. Durant headed to the real sanctuary in his Oakland home, the recording studio.

“Man, why you all keep it so cold in here?” he asked Raleigh Dunn, his recording engineer, while taking a seat in the corner. The lights turned low, Mr. Dunn prepared a sample of the Chi-Lites “Have You Seen Her” for Mr. Durant to lay rhymes over. While some might call Mr. Dunn a “producer,” Mr. Durant has a different name for him: music therapist.

At this point, the N.B.A. star with a sideline in rap has become the stuff of cliché. Before there was Damian Lillard, there was Kobe Bryant. Before Mr. Bryant, there was Shaquille O’Neal. But those guys were different. They made records. They wanted cred. Mr. Durant’s rhymes are more like an audio diary, intended only for himself and close friends. For him, music is like meditation, or sometimes, primal scream therapy.

“I’ve got so much stuff on my mind, quite honestly, it’s kind of easy for me to say it all here,” Mr. Durant said, looking almost monastic with his goateed face hidden in the hood of his sweatshirt. Music, he said, is “a release. It keeps me in the moment. It takes my mind off this crazy world.”

In a few hours, he would hit the court against the Thunder and Mr. Westbrook, his former teammate. While Mr. Durant has called the supposed feud between the two “fake drama” whipped up by the news media, there are clearly unresolved issues.

In their first on-court meeting last November, Mr. Westbrook appeared to troll Mr. Durant by showing up for the game wearing an orange bib that read “Official Photographer.” (Mr. Durant is a budding amateur photographer who shot Super Bowl 50 for The Players’ Tribune, the sports site started by Derek Jeter, and in which Mr. Durant has a stake.)

But at the moment, Mr. Durant would only say that latest rhymes were about “relationship things, both with male friends, females, relationships that might have been broken on both sides.”

That’s the beauty of music. Once you put it down on tape, he said, all the nagging issues “are just out of my mind. I can move on to the next thing.”

Andrew Luck’s surgically repaired right shoulder will keep him out for the start of training camp. How much more time he’ll miss is still unclear.

Indianapolis Colts General Manager Chris Ballard told reporters Monday that Luck, the team’s franchise quarterback, would go on the physically unable to perform list when players report to camp Saturday.

“I want to make this very clear: Andrew has not had a setback,” Ballard said. “This is all part of the process. The long-term prognosis is very good, and that is very positive. We are going to follow the doctors’ orders and the process.”

Luck, the No. 1 overall pick in the 2012 draft, had surgery in January to repair a partly torn labrum. He did not participate in any off-season workouts, and the Colts knew all along there was a good chance he would still be recovering during camp.

ELWAY TO REMAIN WITH BRONCOS John Elway has agreed to a new five-year contract with the Denver Broncos. Elway was set to enter the final year of his contract as general manager and executive vice president for football operations. The Broncos are 77-33 with five playoff appearances in six seasons under Elway’s leadership.

COWBOYS RELEASE RECEIVER The Dallas Cowboys released the third-year receiver and kick returner Lucky Whitehead after he was linked to a shoplifting arrest in his home state, Virginia, with his agent saying he believes it was a case of mistaken identity.

IRVIN WILL NOT FACE CHARGES The former Dallas Cowboys star Michael Irvin will not be charged with sexual assault after Florida prosecutors said that hotel video and other evidence aren’t sufficient to prove his accuser’s allegations. A 27-year-old woman accused Irvin of drugging and sexually assaulting her at the W Hotel in Fort Lauderdale in March.

The Cavaliers have named Koby Altman their full-time general manager. Altman’s promotion had been expected for days. He had been serving as Cleveland’s interim general manager this summer after David Griffin parted ways with the club following the N.B.A. finals. Altman, 34, has been with the club since 2012. He will be the fifth general manager for the owner Dan Gilbert since 2005.

GASOL REMAINS WITH SPURS The San Antonio Spurs signed Pau Gasol to a three-year contract. Gasol opted out of the two-year deal he signed last summer to give the Spurs salary-cap flexibility to supplement the roster in free agency.

Randal Grichuk hit a two-run homer, Mike Leake pitched seven scoreless innings, and the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Colorado Rockies, 8-2, at Busch Stadium.

Leake’s six-strikeout performance was his best since he gave up one run in eight innings against the Washington Nationals on June 30. It was the first win for Leake (7-8) against the Rockies since Aug. 10, 2011.

STANTON HOMERS TWICE Giancarlo Stanton hit his 31st and 32nd home runs, moving into a tie with the Yankees’ Aaron Judge for the major league lead and sending Adam Conley and the host Miami Marlins past the Texas Rangers, 4-0.

INDIANS WIN FOURTH IN A ROW Josh Tomlin pitched six efficient innings, Carlos Santana homered twice, and Cleveland won its fourth straight game, 6-2, over the visiting Cincinnati Reds in the makeup of a May 25 rainout.

WHITE SOX BEAT CUBS Adam Engel and Matt Davidson homered, and the Chicago White Sox halted a nine-game losing streak with a 3-1 victory over the Cubs at Wrigley Field.

TRADES The Kansas City Royals acquired three pitchers from the San Diego Padres — starter Trevor Cahill, closer Brandon Maurer and reliever Ryan Buchter. The Royals sent pitchers Matt Strahm and Travis Wood, the minor league infielder Esteury Ruiz and cash to the Padres.  The Minnesota Twins acquired the veteran left-hander Jaime Garcia, catcher Anthony Recker and cash considerations from the Atlanta Braves for the minor league right-hander Huascar Ynoa.

Katinka Hosszu lived up to her country’s enormous expectations with an electrifying victory in the 200-meter individual medley at the world championships, spurred on by a flag-waving, foot-stomping crowd in Budapest.

She led from start to finish, winning in 2 minutes 7 seconds. It was nearly a second slower than her world-record performance at the Rio Olympics last summer but enough to hold off a hard-charging Yui Ohashi of Japan, who settled for silver in 2:07.91. The bronze went to Madisyn Cox of the United States in 2:09.71.

Dale Earnhardt Jr. will have a new way to voice his racing opinions next season — on television. Earnhardt, Nascar’s most popular driver, will join NBC Sports Group’s coverage of stock car racing next year, and there may be more options once he climbs out of the car for good.

The agreement with NBCUniversal will allow Earnhardt to pursue “a wide range of opportunities in the company’s media businesses, including movies, television, podcasts, and other areas” including football and perhaps even the Olympics.