Athletes who began playing tackle football before the age of 12 had more behavioral and cognitive problems later in life than those who started playing after they turned 12, a new study released on Tuesday showed.

The findings, from a long-term study conducted by researchers at Boston University, are likely to add to the debate over when, or even if, children should be allowed to begin playing tackle football.

The results of the study by researchers at Boston University, published in the journal Nature’s Translational Psychiatry, was based on a sample of 214 former players, with an average age of 51. Of those, 43 played through high school, 103 played through college and the remaining 68 played in the N.F.L.

In phone interviews and online surveys, the researchers found that players in all three groups who participated in youth football before the age of 12 had a twofold “risk of problems with behavioral regulation, apathy and executive function” and a threefold risk of “clinically elevated depression scores.”

“The brain is going through this incredible time of growth between the years of 10 and 12, and if you subject that developing brain to repetitive head impacts, it may cause problems later in life,” Robert Stern, one of the authors of the study, said of the findings.

The study is consistent with earlier findings by Stern and others that looked specifically at N.F.L. retirees. That research found that retirees who started playing before 12 years old had diminished mental flexibility compared to those who began playing tackle football at 12 or older.

A growing number of scientists argue that because the human brain develops rapidly at young ages, especially between 10 and 12, children should not play tackle football until their teenage years.

Last year, doctors at Wake Forest School of Medicine used advanced magnetic resonance imaging technology to find that boys between the ages of 8 and 13 who played just one season of tackle football had diminished brain function in parts of their brains.

The N.F.L., which long denied that there was any link between the game and brain damage, has in recent years been promoting what it considers safer tackling techniques aimed at reducing head-to-head collisions.

More recently, the league has been promoting flag football as an even safer alternative, an implicit acknowledgment that parents are worried about the dangers of the sport and turning away from it.

Participation in tackle football by boys ages 6 to 12 has fallen by nearly 20 percent since 2009, though it rose 1.2 percent, to 1.23 million, in 2015, according to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association.

Schools across the country have shut their tackle football programs because of safety concerns and a shortage of players. Large numbers of children have shifted to other sports like flag football, soccer, baseball and lacrosse.

The new Boston University study looked only at behavioral changes, based on the phone and online surveys.

There was no examination of physical changes in the brain. (A separate study published by researchers at Boston University in July found that 110 out of 111 brains of deceased former N.F.L. players had chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease.)

Still, the findings are yet more evidence that have contributed to an existential crisis for the game, from youth leagues to the N.F.L. Pop Warner, the most established youth football organization in the country, has reduced the amount of contact in practice – where the majority of head hits occur – and changed game rules, including banning kickoffs, one of the most dangerous plays in the game.

Jon Butler, the executive director of Pop Warner, said in a statement that the sport has changed significantly for the better since the players in the Boston University study participated decades ago. He said the organization’s medical advisory committee will review the study and “compare it against the number of recent studies that contradict these findings.”

Pop Warner is facing a class-action lawsuit asserting that it knowingly put players in danger by ignoring the risks of head trauma.

Last year, the Ivy League decided to eliminate tackling at practices during the regular season. The Canadian Football League made a similar announcement last week.

USA Football, the governing body for the sport, is introducing a 7-on-7 version of football that includes measures, like players starting in a two-point stance, designed to reduce the risk of head hits.

Other groups, like Practice Like the Pros, suggest that only flag football be played through the sixth grade and a limited version of tackle football in 7th and 8th grades.

“The curiosity about head injuries and the correct age to play full contact is peaking,” said Terry O’Neil, the group’s founder. “Tackling is the culprit. Everybody associated with the game is worried about the participation numbers.”

David Eaton, a top executive with the NFL Network, resigned a little more than a week after the league-owned sports channel came under fire for tolerating a hostile work environment for female employees.

Last week, Eaton got swept up in the controversy after news media reports surfaced about his history of engaging in sexually explicit conversations on Twitter.

“Last night David Eaton tendered his resignation from NFL Media effective immediately,” the network said in a statement Wednesday.

Eaton’s Twitter history and resignation were first reported by Deadspin. He was the vice president and executive editor of NFL Media, in charge of news operations at both the television channel and NFL.com.

According to screen shots of his account reviewed by The New York Times, over a period of several years Eaton engaged in sexually explicit conversations with accounts that belonged to adult-film actresses, as well as accounts in which users identified themselves as prostitutes and paid escorts. Among the more than 1,000 Twitter accounts Eaton followed were dozens of similar accounts, as well as those of N.F.L. teams, reporters he supervised and airlines.

Eaton, 53, was hired by the NFL Network in 2011 from ABC News, where he had been a bureau chief.

Last week, the NFL Network suspended the analysts Marshall Faulk, Ike Taylor and Heath Evans, pending an investigation into claims of sexual harassment and assault made by a former wardrobe stylist for the network, Jami Cantor. The day after the suspensions, Eaton’s Twitter account was deleted.

The N.F.L. is also dealing with the fallout from allegations that Carolina Panthers owner Jerry Richardson had sexually harassed employees and made racially charged statements. On Sunday Richardson announced he would sell the team after the season, and the league said an investigation into his conduct would continue.

Eaton did not return phone calls seeking comment.

PITTSBURGH — The tradition for a fall Monday here is to engage in the true national — or at least regional — pastime: celebrating a Steelers’ win on Sunday or complaining about what in the world has gotten into the offense.

But this Sunday, like a breaking newscast in the middle of a tight game, in came politics: on the sideline and in the locker room and pretty much everywhere else.

If the ground under the N.F.L. shook from the national debate over race, patriotism, protest and the president, Pittsburgh might have in some ways felt like the epicenter. With teams across the country finding ways to respond to President Trump’s disparaging comments about the league and some players, the beloved Steelers took a drastic approach. As the national anthem played before their game in Chicago, the entire team, except for one player, stood inside the tunnel instead of standing on the sideline.

The town’s professional hockey team, the Penguins, meanwhile, confirmed that it would, in fact, accept an invitation to visit the White House as winners of last season’s Stanley Cup.

On TV news shows and online threads, where one must take a side on all matters, the teams’ divergent approaches made for electric and potentially divisive political drama. But here in the bar stools and diner booths, even widely varying opinions about the issues at the heart tended to come to one big question: When did everything have to get so political?

“What I want to know is why we gave up 23 points to the Bears; no one seems to be talking about that,” said Rose Morton, who on Monday was waiting for a train wearing a black Steelers T-shirt emblazoned with the words RINGS DON’T LIE and the dates of the Steelers’ six Super Bowl wins. “Football isn’t politics. Football is football.”

This was not the first time Pittsburgh had found itself thrown into a national political argument that it had not asked for. In early June, Trump announced his decision to pull out of the international climate agreement by explaining that he was elected “to represent the president of Pittsburgh, not Paris.” This grated here but also amused; the smoggy Steel City stereotype is almost humorously outdated in a city of self-driving cars and Google-shirted shoppers at Trader Joe’s.

But to start a debate within the sports teams — and the Steelers in particular, winners in the steeltown era and winners in the tech hub era, too — may cut deeper than a misbranding of the city’s economic base.

“The issues that are being discussed are absolutely critical to this nation,” said the mayor, Bill Peduto, referring to the racial inequity and police brutality highlighted by players who take a knee and Alejandro Villanueva, a former Army ranger and Bronze star recipient who was the sole Steeler to stand outside the tunnel for the anthem.

“But this just is a way of dividing us in one of the areas we have always been able to unite,” he said. “It should be that part of Pittsburgh that takes over our politics, not Washington politics taking over Pittsburgh.”

Many people here, both supporters and critics of Trump, saw the Penguins’ announcement as an innocuous if rather oddly-timed statement about keeping a tradition of White House visits. The team’s president, David Morehouse, worked in the Clinton administration, and one of its owners, Ron Burkle, is a well-known Clinton donor.

“The N.H.L. is bipartisan,” said Joel Hollies, 34, a bartender sitting before a couple of empty Miller High Life bottles in a Penguin-festooned bar on the south side of town. “I bet Trump can’t name four players on the Pens.”

The conversation was almost exclusively about the Steelers, not only because the team’s decision was the one outside the norm but also because, among the city’s professional franchises, the Steelers are first among equals.

The fan base tends to be older than that of the Penguins’, said Gene Collier, a columnist for The Post-Gazette, in large part because the Steelers were very good long before the Penguins were very good, and the Steelers have now been good for decades (the Pirates, Pittsburgh’s major league baseball team, have had longer stretches of not being very good).

Steelers loyalty runs deep, but among some, this was tested by the team’s decision on Sunday. Some threatened to burn jerseys or junk season tickets.

“What they did really sickens me; it’s changed my opinion of them,” said Kristen Trosky, a bartender and lifelong Steelers fan who heard fans complain all day on Sunday. “It’s like if you’re invited to a wedding, and you’re not the same religion as the bride or groom. You still follow their customs and respect their traditions. It’s not up to you to voice your opinion there. And the tradition at football games is you stand up during the national anthem.”

Mr. Hollies found this unconvincing. The team had not injected politics into this past Sunday; the president had. In fact, Mr. Hollies said, echoing the comments by Steelers Coach Mike Tomlin, by staying in the tunnel the team had been trying to avoid politics.

“The staying in the locker room is a nonissue, it’s just Trump supporters who think it’s the issue,” he said. “They support Trump more than they support the Steelers. It’s disgusting.”

This was not universally true. At an Eat’n Park diner south of the city, Bill Powers, a veteran, Steelers fan and Trump voter, explained that he did not like when players took a knee during the anthem.

But he also saw that Mr. Tomlin had a difficult matter to deal with while also maintaining player discipline and unity. Rather than have some players stand and some kneel on the sideline, it made sense to avoid the issue altogether.

“I wasn’t offended in any way,” Mr. Powers said. “It was a coaching call to keep the team focused.”

The real mystery, he went on, was why the president he voted for decided to pick a fight with the N.F.L. in the first place.

“What was he thinking?” Mr. Powers said. Then, possibly answering his own question, he added, “Sometimes he just doesn’t think.”

Don Ohlmeyer, whose influential television career ranged from producing ABC’s “Monday Night Football” during its 1970s heyday to guiding NBC to No. 1 in prime time two decades later on the strength of programs like “Seinfeld” and “ER,” died on Sunday in Indian Wells, Calif. He was 72.

His family said in a statement that the cause was cancer.

Mr. Ohlmeyer, a cocksure, creative personality, was well known to NBC when it hired him in 1993 to resurrect its entertainment division. After a decade as a disciple to Roone Arledge, the president of ABC Sports, Mr. Ohlmeyer had left to be executive producer of NBC Sports, then formed his own company, Ohlmeyer Communications, to produce sports and entertainment programs.

Promised autonomy by Bob Wright, the president of NBC, Mr. Ohlmeyer evaluated the network’s prime-time assets: “Seinfeld” and “Law & Order” were not yet hits, “Cheers” was in its final season, and “L.A. Law” was no longer a powerhouse.

“When I got there, I used to say, there was the smell of death,” he told the Archive of American Television in 2004.

That did not last long. Carried along by new series like “ER,” “Friends” and “Frasier,” and the emergence of “Seinfeld,” NBC rose to No. 1 in prime time during the 1995-6 season. And in late night programming, the decision to help Jay Leno thrive as the host of “The Tonight Show” paid off. Mr. Leno had been chosen over David Letterman to succeed Johnny Carson, and Mr. Letterman’s new show on CBS eventually succumbed to Mr. Leno in the ratings race.

But Mr. Ohlmeyer, who was the president of NBC West Coast, had a fractious relationship with Warren Littlefield, the president of NBC Entertainment, whose power had been clipped when Mr. Ohlmeyer arrived. Mr. Littlefield, in “Top of the Rock: Inside the Rise and Fall of Must See TV” (2012), written with T. R. Pearson, wrote that he had viewed Mr. Ohlmeyer’s arrival as a vote of “severely limited confidence in me.”

Mr. Ohlmeyer kept Mr. Littlefield as his deputy, but their personalities were vastly different — Mr. Ohlmeyer was blunt and autocratic, Mr. Littlefield was quieter and more collegial — and so were their opinions on the development of hits like “ER” and “Friends.”

In Mr. Littlefield’s book, Jack Welch, the chairman of General Electric, which owned NBC then, made clear which executive he valued more. “The thinking was that Warren was a dry hole,” he was quoted as saying. “Ohlmeyer’s personality and charisma made us a bigger force in Hollywood in our view.”

By 1996 Mr. Ohlmeyer was known to be drinking heavily — so much so, Mr. Littlefield wrote, that the alcohol use had become a liability in the office and at off-site events. He said he had asked Mr. Wright to encourage Mr. Ohlmeyer to get help. “Don was clearly sick and needed our help and support,” Mr. Littlefield said.

Mr. Ohlmeyer, who was also a chain-smoker, was encouraged through an intervention to enter the Betty Ford Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif., for a month of alcohol rehabilitation. He then returned to NBC.

In 1998, Mr. Ohlmeyer feuded with Norm Macdonald, the sardonic comedian and anchor of the “Weekend Update” news segment on NBC’s “Saturday Night Live.” Mr. Ohlmeyer said Mr. Macdonald was not funny in the role and had him removed from the segment and replaced by Colin Quinn. Mr. Macdonald continued to appear in sketches in a few more shows that season, his last with “S.N.L.”

Mr. Macdonald cast his exile as an overreaction by Mr. Ohlmeyer to his “Weekend Update” jokes about O. J. Simpson, who was a close friend of Mr. Ohlmeyer’s. After the arrest of Mr. Simpson in the murders of his former wife Nicole Brown Simpson and her friend Ron Goldman and during his trial, Mr. Ohlmeyer stood by him, saying he would never abandon a friend. He said he had never told anyone to lay off Mr. Simpson, whether at “Saturday Night Live” or “The Tonight Show.”

When Mr. Ohlmeyer stepped down from NBC in 1999, he told The Los Angeles Times: “There’s two reasons to do this job. One is you desperately want and need to win. The other is you care about what people say about you in the press, and what people say about you at cocktail parties.”

He added, “And they are mutually exclusive.”

Donald Winfred Ohlmeyer Jr. was born in New Orleans on Feb. 3, 1945. His mother, the former Eva Bivens, was a physical education teacher who influenced his interest in sports. Donald Sr. was a chemist and brewmaster. The family later moved to Glenview, Ill., where Don Jr. went to high school. While attending the University of Notre Dame, he made money hustling pool in local bars.

One night, he won $200 from an ABC Sports director, who then hired him as a $25-a-day gofer for a coming Notre Dame-Purdue football game. Mr. Ohlmeyer received similar assignments around the Midwest from ABC, hitchhiking to events from the Notre Dame campus, in South Bend, Ind.

The director he had hustled was Chet Forte, who later became Mr. Ohlmeyer’s partner on “Monday Night Football.”

Mr. Ohlmeyer started working full time at ABC in 1967 and rose quickly from production assistant to associate producer — editing tape of events like the Daytona 500 — to producer. When he directed the Indianapolis 500 for ABC, his goal was to make the broadcast as enthralling as the experience of watching “Grand Prix,” a 1966 film by John Frankenheimer set during the race in Monaco. He was also in the ABC control room during the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich when the network covered the massacre of 11 Israeli team members by Palestinian terrorists.

“Monday Night Football” was an established hit when Mr. Arledge promoted Mr. Ohlmeyer to producer in 1973. Viewers were engaged by its distinctive if unusual threesome of announcers: Howard Cosell, a dyspeptic, easy-to-dislike commentator best known for boxing and his relationship with Muhammad Ali; Don Meredith, the mellow and mischievous former quarterback who could drift into song or wit; and Frank Gifford, the handsome football hero and straight man who tried to tame the other two.

Mr. Ohlmeyer was known as a workaholic who used NFL Films footage as inspiration, seeking low angles and tight close-ups that revealed players’ emotions. He also effectively handled Mr. Cosell, a brilliant but brittle personality who had never called football before. Mr. Ohlmeyer dealt firmly with him, persuaded him to rerecord segments if he thought Mr. Cosell could do better and fed him information that made him sound prescient.

During one game, Mr. Ohlmeyer told Mr. Cosell through his earpiece that the New England Patriots’ next play was going to involve a certain pass pattern by tight end Russ Francis. Mr. Ohlmeyer had discussed the play with Coach Chuck Fairbanks before the game. On cue, Francis scored on the play.

As they left in a limousine after the game, Mr. Cosell gloated, saying to Mr. Ohlmeyer, “How’d you like that call, kid?”

An incredulous Mr. Ohlmeyer asked, “Do you think that plastic thing in your ear is a brain?”

When he left ABC in 1977 to join NBC for the first time, Mr. Ohlmeyer told Mr. Arledge that he needed to prove himself rather than stay in Mr. Arledge’s outsize orbit.

As the executive producer of NBC Sports for five years, he elevated the quality of its broadcasts and gave it some of the swagger of ABC’s sports division. But he was disappointed when the opportunity to oversee NBC’s broadcasts of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow was scuttled when President Jimmy Carter refused to allow the United States to participate because of the Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan.

Two years later, he left NBC to create Ohlmeyer Communications, where he continued to produce sports programs like the Skins Game, a golf exhibition; television movies like the Emmy Award-winning “Special Bulletin,” a story about nuclear terrorism that was presented as if it were happening in real time; and musical events like “Season’s Greetings: An Evening With John Williams and the Boston Pops Orchestra.”

With backing from RJR Nabisco, Mr. Ohlmeyer’s company acquired 20 percent of ESPN for $60 million, which brought him onto the cable sports channel’s board and gave him a hungry outlet for his sports programming. He eventually cashed in his stake for an undisclosed amount and sold his sports programming assets to ESPN for about $24 million, according to “Those Guys Have All the Fun: Inside the World of ESPN,” by James Miller and Tom Shales (2011).

“Don Ohlmeyer made more money out of ESPN than anybody else,” Steve Bornstein, a former president of ESPN, told Mr. Miller and Mr. Shales. “Hey, he’s a smart guy.”

He is survived by his wife, the former Linda Jonsson, who is called L. J.; his sons Drew, Chris, Todd and Kemper; and nine grandchildren. His marriages to Dossie Mahaffey and Adrian Perry, who was known as Muffy, ended in divorce.

A year after Mr. Ohlmeyer left NBC, he returned to ABC to produce “Monday Night Football” at the request of his friend Howard Katz, the president of ABC Sports. Mr. Katz wanted Mr. Ohlmeyer to reinvigorate the franchise — to make each game an event, as it used to be in the 1970s. He kept Al Michaels as the play-by-play announcer but replaced the analyst Boomer Esiason with two men — the verbose comedian Dennis Miller, a surprising addition, and the former quarterback Dan Fouts, a more conventional choice.

Mr. Ohlmeyer was expected to stay in the job for two years but left after one season, saying he had wearied of the travel.

“From the second week of the preseason, I realized I had made the most dreadful mistake of my life,” he told the television archive, adding, “Every flight was like going to the electric chair.”

In retirement he golfed, painted and taught communications courses at Pepperdine University. But he made one further foray into sports television, as the ombudsman for ESPN from 2009 to 2011.

“Some might misunderstand the fact that my every comment has not been a scathing, blistering indictment of network miscues,” Mr. Ohlmeyer wrote in his final column as ombudsman. “That might be because, after 40 years in the business, I have an appreciation of the intricacies and difficulties of what ESPN is trying to accomplish.”

If ever there was an industry that shrugs at moral outrage, it is college sports. Autumn Saturdays are held sacred for football rivalries, are they not? Spring weekends are the stuff of March Madness.

Every now and then, some institutions of higher learning earn a tsk-tsk for cutting corners, or a wrist slap for violating N.C.A.A. rules. No-show classes at North Carolina? No worries. College basketball coaches indicted on a charge of trying to turn those student-athletes into meal tickets? It’s been going on forever.

But try to hire a football coach with a middling record at a once-mighty Southeastern Conference university.

Hang on for dear life.

Consider the case of the Ohio State defensive coordinator Greg Schiano. On Sunday morning, he was apparently the coach-elect of the University of Tennessee. By nightfall, he was not.

Schiano’s hiring had leaked before it was announced, and the decision was swiftly pilloried because Schiano had allegedly — and this is a whopper of an allegedly — failed to report sexual assault while an assistant coach at Penn State under Joe Paterno and alongside the convicted child molester Jerry Sandusky.

“SCHIANO COVERED UP CHILD RAPE AT PENN STATE,” was painted on The Rock, a campus landmark and a sort of predigital town square.

Elected officials, of course, got involved on Twitter and in statements to reporters.

“The head football coach at the University of Tennessee is the highest-paid state employee,” said Jeremy Faison, a state representative. “They’re the face of our state. We don’t need a man who has that type of potential reproach in their life as the highest-paid state employee. It’s egregious to the people and it’s wrong to the taxpayers.”

In a 2015 deposition, the former Penn State assistant coach Mike McQueary testified that another Penn State assistant coach, Tom Bradley, had told him that Schiano had talked to him about seeing Sandusky abusing a boy sometime in the early 1990s. Both Schiano and Bradley, most recently an assistant at U.C.L.A, have denied the allegation and said they had no knowledge of the abuse.

On Monday, Anthony Lubrano, a trustee at Penn State since 2012, said in a statement that Schiano “had nothing to do with the Sandusky scandal.”

“Any stories about his involvement are completely uncorroborated and without basis in fact,” Lubrano said. “To impugn Mr. Schiano’s character based on hearsay alone is irresponsible and unfair.”

Tennessee’s athletic director, John Currie, too, issued a strong defense of Schiano that was strange in light of the fact Currie caved to public pressure and didn’t go through with Schiano’s hire.

“We carefully interviewed and vetted him, as we do candidates for all positions,” Currie said in a statement. “He received the highest recommendations for character, family values and commitment to academic achievement and student-athlete welfare from his current and former athletics directors, players, coaching colleagues and experienced media figures.”

Mark Dominik, the former general manager of the N.F.L.’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers, pinpointed the real reason Schiano was so objectionable to the Volunteer faithful: He hadn’t won enough.

As head coach of the Bucs in 2012 and 2013, Schiano was 11-21. In 11 seasons as Rutgers’ head coach, he went 68-67. His six winning seasons at Rutgers and six bowl appearances may have passed muster at the University of New Jersey, even if Schiano’s $2 million salary and the university’s $102 million stadium expansion turned off many Scarlett Knights fans.

But Old Rocky Top needs and wants better.

The uproar in Volunteer nation is not because the Tennessee faithful are suddenly “woke” and demanding a coach who’s part Billy Graham, part Bobby Bowden.

After all, the Vols once employed as their basketball coach Bruce Pearl, who is no stranger to N.C.A.A. transgressions. Last year, Tennessee settled a $2.48 million federal lawsuit that a group of women brought against the university for the way it handled their allegations of sexual assaults by student-athletes.

Certainly some of the people in Tennessee who objected so swiftly and vociferously on Sunday to the Schiano news were drawing a moral line. For others, though, this is about the University of Tennessee wanting to be good at football again. They want a better coach than Schiano.

This year the Vols posted their first eight-loss season in history. Butch Jones (34-27 over five seasons) was fired on Nov. 12, the day after the team lost to Missouri, 50-17, to finish an inexcusable 0-8 in conference play.

Volunteer nation could not endure another season like that. So Schiano’s deal was scrapped. The talking heads were happy, as were the trolls and politicians.

“Thank you to our community for stepping up and standing for our traditional, commons sense TN Values! #HigherStandards” tweeted Jason Zachary, a state representative.

Now, moral outrage has found a home at the University of Tennessee. At least until the Vols find a coach who can win a national championship.

More girls are playing high school football, even as the sport draws fewer participants overall in an injury-conscious era.

As part of Super Bowl LII in Minneapolis, the National Football League organized its third Women’s Summit for Friday “to discuss how football and the broader sports world can continue to support the advancement of women on and off the field,” said Kamran Mumtaz, an N.F.L. spokesman.

The sport remains male-dominated, with no women playing in the N.F.L. and few on college teams. But some high school girls, playing on teams of boys, are gaining attention for their achievements.

For example, last fall, the high school quarterback Holly Neher threw a touchdown pass in Florida, making headlines as the first girl known to do so in state history.

And K-Lani Nava, a kicker, became the first girl in Texas to score points in a high school state championship game.

But as a growing body of research suggests that youth tackle football is harmful to children’s brains, not everyone is cheering.

“Why bring girls into it? We should be taking the boys out of it,” said Dr. Robert Stern, director of clinical research for Boston University’s C.T.E. Center, which studies chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease caused by repeated blows to the head. “It doesn’t make sense to expose our children to repetitive head impacts during periods of incredible maturation of the most important organ in our body, the brain.”

The number of girls playing tackle football is still low compared to boys — of the 225,000 athletes in Pop Warner youth football programs, for example, just 1,100 are girls. According to the Sports and Fitness Industry Association, of the 5.5 million Americans who report playing tackle football, 596,000 — or 10.9 percent — are female.

It is notable that more girls want to play even as annual survey by the National Association of State High School Federations reported that participation in high school football went down 3.5 percent over the past five years.

Valerie Palmer-Mehta, a professor of communication at Oakland University whose work focuses on women and rhetoric, said the change is evidence of larger cultural shifts.

“We can thank a constellation of cultural forces for women’s involvement in football today, from Title IX to the women’s movement, to strong female athletes who have persisted in pursuing their athletic dreams despite a lack of broader cultural support,” Dr. Palmer-Mehta said.

Team sports like football provide well established social, physical and psychological benefits. But a Boston University study released last year found that kids who played tackle football before age 12 may be at higher risk for emotional and behavioral problems later in life. Another study took MRIs of the brains of kids before and after a single season of tackle football, removing from the study anyone who had a diagnosable concussion. Those researchers found that there was a change in the brain’s white matter after just one season of play. And a study published in January in the journal Brain found the kind of changes typical of C.T.E. in the brains of four teenage athletes who had died after impact injuries.

Dr. Stern said that it is important to understand that the real danger for C.T.E. is not necessarily concussions, but subconcussive impacts. That is, repeated hitting is damaging — even if it doesn’t cause a concussion.

Crystal Sacco, league president and co-founder of Utah Girls Tackle Football, which started in 2015 and is expecting about 400 girls this season, said she doesn’t hear many concerns from parents about their daughters playing tackle football.

“I think they feel safe because they’re playing against other girls,” she said. And Dr. Stern noted that it is not possible to say whether the research — which looked only at boys — can be generalized to include girls because in an all-girls league, the force of the hits could be different.

But several studies have found that in sports with comparable rules between girls and boys, the rates of concussion are actually higher in women. Not only that, a 2012 statement from the American Medical Society for Sports Medicine highlighted research showing that female athletes sustain more concussions than their male counterparts, report more severe symptoms and have a longer duration of recovery than men.

“When it comes to female athletes’ participation — regardless of age — we’re lacking in truly understanding their experience around head injury,” said Donna Duffy, co-director of the Female Brain Project, a research team at the University of North Carolina Greensboro studying head injuries in female athletes. “We’re on the cusp of this; there’s a growing body of literature suggesting that biological sex hormones may be impacted or disrupted when a head injury is sustained.”

But while Dr. Duffy cautions more research is needed, she agrees with other researchers that prepubescent kids should avoid playing tackle football.

Parents whose daughters want to play football may feel they have a difficult decision to make. Several programs suggest flag football as a healthier option for both boys and girls, because they learn the strategy of the game and develop agility skills without risking the injuries of tackling.

Last month, the Concussion Legacy Foundation, composed of doctors and former N.F.L. players, recommended that no children play tackle football before age 14. They’ve created the Flag Football Under 14 program to encourage kids who want to play football to start with flag football until they’re older, and Chris Nowinski, the foundation’s co-founder and chief executive, says those guidelines apply to both boys and girls.

The N.F.L. has also been promoting its flag football program, which partners with U.S.A. Football to allow kids who play flag football to sport the uniform and logo of an N.F.L. team. The N.F.L. Flag program is open to both girls and boys, and according to Mr. Mumtaz, participation increased 45 percent in the past five years to more than 409,000 in 2017.

Girls varsity flag football has been sanctioned as a high school sport in five states. Jen Welter, the first female coach in the N.F.L., founded Grrridiron Girls, a flag football camp program designed to allow girls of all experience levels to participate. Her most recent camp in Boston had 90 participants.

Dr. Welter suggested that if a girl is interested in playing football, rather than shutting down the conversation entirely, parents could discuss what drives her desire to play and consider ways to play safely.

“Flag is one of those ways,” she said, to allow them “to learn about the game and to develop their skills.”