Not long after the owner Mark Davis of the Raiders got the green light from the other owners of N.F.L. teams to leave Oakland and move to Las Vegas, he sought to make things right with the passionate, sometimes rancorous hometown fans.

He wandered through the lobby of the Biltmore Hotel in Phoenix, where the vote took place on Monday, and found Godfather Griz Jones, the leader of Forever Oakland, one of the team’s most fervent fan groups. Dressed in a white shirt, white tie and jacket, Davis reached out to shake Jones’s hand, but he was rebuffed.

Davis told Jones he wanted to talk about “the team’s future” and how to work together to support the Raiders in their new digs in the desert.

“There is no future,” Jones said. Conversation closed.

The Raiders most certainly have a future, but it will be rocky in the short term and uncertain in the long term.

The team has one of the most loyal local followings in the N.F.L., yet that loyalty will be tested like never before. Fans in Oakland were bitter when the Raiders moved to Los Angeles in 1982. But the team won a third Super Bowl title, and a new generation of fans there and elsewhere bloomed, many of them probably willing to trek to Las Vegas for games. And ultimately, in 1995, the Raiders returned to the city where they were born, so there was a happy ending.

This move is far different. Las Vegas is much smaller, has no real football tradition and is best known for its casinos and all-you-can-eat buffets. The relocation feels like the money grab it is. Davis and the other N.F.L. owners said they were impressed with the city’s potential, but what persuaded them most was the $750 million tax subsidy lawmakers in Nevada will provide for a big, modern stadium with suites, fancy restaurants and concession stands, not to mention the prospect of a marquee naming-rights partner and other financial benefits.

Fans might not care about such amenities, but in the money-first N.F.L., the other 31 owners certainly do because they receive a cut of what every team generates in its stadium. The Raiders have been near the bottom in the amount of revenue they have produced in their deteriorating stadium, which is more than 50 years old.

The Raiders will also have to pay a relocation fee of almost $400 million that will be split evenly among the teams.

A new domed stadium in Las Vegas would also be a candidate to host a Super Bowl, bringing one of the biggest media and sports events — and the financial boon that comes with it — to one of the biggest entertainment zones in the country.

The owner Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys, a power broker in the league who embraced and pushed the move, had an extra incentive. He owns half of Legends, a marketing and hospitality company. Last year, he persuaded the owners to let the Rams move to Los Angeles, and his company won the contract for the new stadium the Rams are building there. Jones pulled off the same daily double with the Raiders.

After a decade and a half of stability, the N.F.L. has approved three relocations in just 15 months. So many teams have relatively new stadiums that there are unlikely to be any major moves domestically for a while.

The owners, though, are interested in markets overseas, particularly London, where teams have played regular-season games since 2007. The Jacksonville Jaguars, who play in a small television market, have adopted London as their second home, and in theory, they would be first in line to move there if the owners decided to expand the league’s geographic footprint. Not coincidentally, the Jaguars, like the Raiders, are nearly last in revenue produced from their home games.

None of this matters to the aggrieved fans in Oakland. The more curious reaction came in Las Vegas.

There, lawmakers made the obligatory statements of congratulations, and Raiders fans rejoiced on the Strip. But Bill Foley, who paid $500 million for a new N.H.L. franchise that will be the first major pro team in Las Vegas when it begins play this year in a privately built hockey arena, rained on the Raiders’ parade when he questioned the wisdom of spending so much money to lure a football team.

“I felt like there were a lot of better ways to spend $750 million than bringing the Raiders to Las Vegas,” he told Vegas Hockey Hotline, a radio show. “We could spend it on police, firefighters and teachers and have them all be the best in the country. But I guess we’re going to spend it on the Raiders.”

Then there was Raiders quarterback Derek Carr, a California native.

“I don’t know how we should feel,” he wrote in a statement posted on Twitter. “I feel the pain of our fans in Oakland. I also see the joy on the faces of our new fans in Las Vegas.”

Oakland will continue to feel the Raiders’ pain. Taxpayers there still have to pay off nearly $100 million in debt to cover improvements to the Coliseum made more than 20 years ago to lure the Raiders back from Los Angeles.

And Oakland, like San Diego and St. Louis, which also lost teams in the past year or so, will now be invoked by other N.F.L. owners when they are unable to wrest concessions out of lawmakers in their home markets. For years, Los Angeles played that role, allowing owners to threaten to move there if they did not get subsidies to stay.

The new stadium is projected to be ready in 2020, and the Raiders’ current lease expires after the 2018 season, meaning Oakland fans may get two more seasons unless the team departs sooner to play in temporary quarters in Las Vegas.

Jones, the leader of Forever Oakland, said he would not be traveling to Nevada to watch his beloved team.

Shortly after his ill-fated meeting with Jones, Davis greeted well-wishers at a restaurant in the Biltmore, where he had repaired for lunch. The Sports Illustrated columnist Peter King, who was dining nearby, asked Davis if he had thought at all about his father, Al, who moved the team to Los Angeles and back to Oakland, and who died in 2011.

“I think about him every day,” Davis said, and then he entertained the logical follow-up question: What would Al think of the Raiders in Vegas?

Davis paused for a second and assumed a quizzical look.

“I really don’t know what he would think,” he said.

Soon after the Jacksonville Jaguars beat the Buffalo Bills on Sunday for the team’s first playoff victory in a decade, the players and coaches streamed into their locker room to celebrate.

As they whooped it up, one key member of the team’s transformation from perennial loser to division champion and postseason contender was savoring the moment in a more subdued way. Tom Coughlin, the first coach of the Jaguars, way back in 1994, and the winner of two Super Bowls with the Giants, was in a small room nearby.

Coughlin, now Jacksonville’s head of football operations, tried to keep the focus on the players and on winning. This is what he has always done. He shook hands and exchanged pleasantries with friends. He wanted no part of the hugs and high-fives, but visitors noticed a broad smile on his often sullen visage.

Coughlin has a lot to smile about as the Jaguars prepare for their divisional-round game against the Steelers this weekend in Pittsburgh. His return to Jacksonville, where he shaped the fledgling franchise during eight years as coach and general manager, has coincided with the team’s resurgence. After six straight losing seasons, the Jaguars won their division for the first time since 1999. The team had the league’s second-stingiest defense and the fifth-highest-scoring offense.

Coughlin did not call the plays or stalk the sideline, but inside and outside the organization there is widespread agreement that his presence advising Coach Doug Marrone and General Manager Dave Caldwell added the wisdom and professionalism to help turn the one of the league’s youngest rosters into a competitive team.

“A lot of people were wondering how that was going to work, and will Tom let Doug be Doug,” said Jeff Lageman, who was one of the first free agents Coughlin signed in Jacksonville, and who is now an analyst for Jaguars Radio. “That’s the thing that has impressed me most. Tom has stayed in the background and let him Doug do what he needs to do.”

Coughlin’s penchant for precision and discipline are everywhere, including the focus on getting to meetings early and the way uniforms are worn. For a team that has had a reputation as one of the league’s most undisciplined organizations, little things like that matter.

Although Coughlin remains intense, he has also softened, particularly when it comes to trying to understand his players.

This was evident during the most crucial weekend of the 2017 N.F.L. season in late September. The crisis began on a Friday night, when President Donald J. Trump urged owners to fire players who refused to stand for the national anthem. The Jaguars were in London to play their annual game there. Waking up to the news overseas on Saturday, many players were aghast and eager to protest. Because of the time difference, the Jaguars and the Baltimore Ravens were going to be the first teams to play that weekend.

Shahid Khan, the Jacksonville owner, and his staff spent Saturday night discussing what to do but reached no conclusion. When they arrived at Wembley Stadium before the game, Khan met with Marrone and Coughlin. Coughlin, a big supporter of the military, might have had his own feelings on the matter, but he knew that whatever was decided, the players had to be on board.

“He said that you have to understand where these players came from, their upbringing, and if you don’t, the team will fall apart,” Khan said of Coughlin.

Coughlin wanted to go with Marrone to the locker room to meet with the players. But Marrone realized that would be unwieldy, so they invited the captains to speak with them in a small meeting room at the stadium. They ultimately decided that the entire team should lock arms on the sideline, and Khan joined them, a sight that set the tone for the rest of the league.

Coughlin and Marrone were too busy preparing for the Steelers to be interviewed for this article. But friends describe Coughlin’s return to the city and the team that he built and, in some ways, never left — as a happy one. He never sold his house in Jacksonville, and continued to run his local charity, the Jay Fund, which helps families of cancer patients. (It is named for the former Boston College safety Jay McGillis, who played for Coughlin there and died of leukemia.)

When Coughlin left Jacksonville after the 2002 season, supporters said he was a scapegoat, and critics said he had worn out his welcome.

So it was after the 2015 season with his rocky exit from the Giants, with whom he won two titles but posted losing seasons the last three of his dozen years there. Nearing 70, he was eager to keep coaching, and his name surfaced as a candidate for some jobs. But he ended up spending the 2016 season behind a desk at N.F.L. headquarters working as an adviser, with an eye toward returning to a club.

“It was more than an itch,” Commissioner Roger Goodell said before the Jaguars’ game against the Bills. “I always knew he wanted to get back and help build a team and help build a championship team.”

By the end of the 2016 season, Khan knew changes were needed in Jacksonville. During the five full seasons after he bought the team for $760 million in 2011, the Jaguars won just 17 games, three fewer than the lowly Cleveland Browns. He fired Coach Gus Bradley in the final month of the season and wanted to keep Marrone, the interim coach. But Khan felt the team needed what he called “a veteran presence” to guide both the coach and general manager to lift the franchise out of the doldrums.

“It couldn’t be someone random, but someone who had the passion and had the Jaguars blood that went through their veins,” Khan said. “Tom Coughlin was the ideal candidate, and he was available and he was looking for a position.”

Coughlin, he said, wanted to coach, so he took his time considering the offer before taking it. Although one can imagine that Coughlin wanted to prove to the Giants that he could still win, friends of his say that he was not driven by spite.

“He left the Giants reluctantly; I don’t think that’s a secret,” said Ernie Bono Sr., a close friend who helped Coughlin establish the Jay Fund. “But he’s not the retiring type. He doesn’t care about showing anyone up. He told me he felt for the Giants when they were losing.”

Still, having a former coach oversee a current coach and general manager can be tricky. If he takes too heavy a hand and creates tension, an insecure coach may feel the boss is trying to undermine him and take over. Some recent examples — Mike Holmgren in Cleveland and Bill Parcells in Miami — did not last long.

Khan was aware of these potential pitfalls, so he asked Coughlin which coaches he would want to work with. Coughlin named two, the first being Marrone. Khan, who did not tell Coughlin beforehand that he intended to keep Marrone, had his man.

Coughlin and Marrone have a long history that centers on Syracuse, where they each played and coached. Nearly 20 years younger than his boss, Marrone sees Coughlin as a mentor, not a threat. He shares his game plans with Coughlin, who attends practices and will pull players aside to deliver instruction.

Commenting on Coughlin after the regular-season finale, Marrone said he had learned more in the past year from his boss than ever, on topics including running a practice, scheduling and dealing with players.

“I talk to him more than I talk to my wife,” he said.

“You can see his fingerprints all over the team,” said Jay Feely, a former kicker for Coughlin’s Giants and who is now an analyst for CBS Sports. “He deflects all credit from himself. But if you’re truthful, you’d say he deserves a lot of credit” for turning the team around.

In Week 5, the Jaguars beat the Steelers, 30-9, in Pittsburgh. They intercepted quarterback Ben Roethlisberger five times, returning two of the picks for touchdowns. The rookie running back Leonard Fournette, a big, physical presence, ran for 181 yards and two scores. Fournette has become an emblem of Jacksonville’s bruising offense, a Coughlin trademark.

The temperature will be a lot colder this Sunday, something that could favor the home team. But if the Jaguars upset the Steelers, Coughlin will no doubt celebrate, but quietly — again.

For at least another weekend, the Jaguars, too.

Two high school students in Texas were kicked off their football team on Friday night after they demonstrated during the national anthem to protest racial inequality.

One student, Cedric Ingram-Lewis, 16, raised a fist in the air while the anthem played. The other, Larry McCullough, 18, got down on one knee. In response, their coach told them to hand over their uniforms, The Houston Chronicle reported.

“We had to get our message across: End racial injustice and the oppression of black people,” Mr. Ingram-Lewis said in a phone interview on Sunday.

The coach, Ronnie Mitchem, is the pastor at Victory and Praise Worship Center in Crosby, Tex., and a Marine Corps veteran. In a phone interview on Sunday, he said the teenagers’ demonstration was offensive to people who served in the military.

“I’ve been very patriotic my whole life,” he said. “I believe everybody has a right to protest, and I let those guys do their protests. But the rule was, if you did this protest, you wouldn’t be on the team.”

The two teenagers, who are cousins, decided to demonstrate even though Mr. Mitchem had warned players the day before against protesting, Mr. Ingram-Lewis said. After the anthem, Mr. Mitchem told them to return their uniforms, which they did.

Last year, the N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick was playing for the San Francisco 49ers when he began kneeling during the anthem to protest racial inequality, attracting national attention. He is now a free agent.

At a political rally in Alabama on Sept. 22, President Trump denounced professional athletes who did not stand during the playing of the anthem. He added that they should be fired and that any team owner who followed his advice would become “the most popular person in the country” for a week.

His comments are part of what prompted widespread demonstrations on Sept. 24, when scores of N.F.L. players knelt, raised a fist or locked arms during the anthem to protest racial inequality, setting off fierce national debates. Last week, several high schools stepped into the fray by warning students not to kneel during the anthem at sports events, with some threatening disciplinary action.

Still, some students were reported kneeling during the anthem in towns across the country, from Vancouver, Wash., to New Brunswick, N.J., to Austin, Tex. In contrast, one team in Fannin County, Ga., had its players carry American flags while running onto the field.

Mr. Mitchem said his football team was a small church-based operation with no high school affiliation.

“They know that when I make a rule, I make a rule,” he said of his players. “I’m trying to teach the guys respect, and in our program, we do more than just play football. We teach guys how to shake hands with somebody, look them in the eye, be a man.”

He said he cared about Mr. Ingram-Lewis and Mr. McCullough and would consider letting them play again as long as they did not protest during the anthem.

Mr. McCullough could not be reached but Mr. Ingram-Lewis said he did not regret leaving the team, adding that his demonstration was not about disrespecting the flag or the military.

“That’s not our intent. That wasn’t Kaepernick’s intent when he first kneeled,” he said. “It was about police brutality and racial injustice.”

VOZNESENKA, Alaska — The football players wore their black and yellow jerseys to class last Friday, a day before the home opener for Voznesenka School, the smallest high school in Alaska to field a team.

But a game required at least 11 players. And so far at practice this summer, the Cougars had fielded no more than 10.

The roster is customarily thin at the beginning of the season in this lush and remote community where sports for boys and girls have progressed carefully, with an evolving balance of contemporary life and the old ways of tradition and religion.

Players were still trickling into school after a summer on commercial fishing boats, drift-netting for salmon with their fathers, brothers, uncles and cousins. For some it had been a record haul for sockeye, a variety of wild salmon known here as reds, and a number of players had been on the water for two months.

Practice began in late July, but it was haphazard. Five players showed up one day, six or seven the next. It went on that way, week after week.

Each absence was acutely felt at a school of 109 students, in prekindergarten through 12th grade, with only 29 in high school. The first game, scheduled on the road for Aug. 17, was canceled. It was Voznesenka’s first forfeit in the five seasons it has played 11-man football, after brief participation in the unofficial, eight-man version.

“Heartbreaking,” said Justin Zank, 34, Voznesenka’s football and wrestling coach.

He laughed grimly.

“I think this season has taken years off my life.”

And it had yet to begin.

But Zank had learned patience in this unincorporated village of about 50 or 60 families on the Kenai Peninsula, more than 200 miles south of Anchorage.

He could not expect high school football to be consuming here, the way it could be in Texas and the Deep South. Voznesenka has no gym and shares a playing field 45 minutes away in the fishing hub of Homer.

Zank improvised by constructing a weight room in his garage, where he also placed a wrestling mat for training. The Cougars had won only four games in four seasons, and the coach took his satisfaction from small improvements, a player’s awakening.

“Here,” he said, “it’s life with football on the side, not football with life on the side.”

Voznesenka is a community of Old Believers, a secluded offshoot of the Russian Orthodox Church that resisted reforms in the mid-17th century and still adheres to traditionalist worship, customs, dietary restrictions and styles of dress.

The local church, with its onion dome, sits next to the school. All students speak English and Russian. Depending on the strategy of a particular football game, placards are sometimes held aloft on the sideline, signaling plays in Cyrillic.

At the head of Kachemak Bay, the pavement ends. Gravel roads dip steeply through spruce forests and purple blossoms of fireweed to the Old Believer villages of Voznesenka, Razdolna and Kachemak Selo, which pool their athletes to sustain teams. Across the bay, glaciers sit atop mountains like alpine sand traps.

Isolation has been long pursued by Old Believers in places like Siberia, China, Brazil, Canada, Oregon and — beginning in the late 1960s — Alaska, as they sought to practice their faith, avoid persecution and escape unwanted influences from the outside world.

Voznesenka was established in 1985, and when the school got its first computer in the early 1990s, parents kept their children home for two weeks in protest, school officials said.

Gradually, as a younger generation had school-age children and technology became more vital to the fishing industry, many in the village began to welcome the internet, smartphones, television and sports — football, wrestling and hockey for boys and, most recently in a male-dominated society, soccer and cross-country for girls.

“The younger generation of parents want their kids to have the same opportunities as others and to be active,” said Efrocia Polushkin, a special-education aide who has worked at Voznesenka School for 29 years and has two sons who played football. “We have to grow with the times. We can’t keep our kids locked in drawers.”

• • •

The home opener was five days away, but only six players suited up for practice. Among the absent were those busy with home chores, butchering chickens or digging potatoes. Zank received a text message from Prokohpy Konev, 16, a junior wide receiver and defensive back: “Mom made me shovel out the chicken coop.”

It was drizzly with temperatures in the 50s. Practice was held at an elementary school 10 miles from Voznesenka. After two hours of drills, players ran around cones on an unmarked field, 25 to 30 seconds per lap, until they bent in exhaustion. Two players who had just returned from fishing, and were not yet in football shape, went into the bushes and threw up.

Nikit Anufriev, 18, a senior center and defensive end, was the biggest player on the field and the best conditioned. Once, he was so gangly that older boys shoved him into lockers. Now he had filled out to 6-feet-2, 190 pounds. While fishing over the summer, he jumped rope to stay fit and did push-ups and situps on the boat. He ran effortlessly, opening a gap on his teammates with each lap.

He had attended a prestigious wrestling camp in the summer of 2016. Something had clicked in his head: Stop training to finish last. “It changed his life,” Zank said.

No one could seem to remember the last person — or any person — from Voznesenka who had gone to college on an athletic scholarship. Anufriev wanted to be that person.

“I’ve got goals,” he said.

Football and wrestling were viewed as reflections of the discipline and resilience needed to maintain Old Believer traditions. And the strength required for physically demanding jobs in fishing, construction and subsistence farming.

“It’s all about who’s the strongest,” said Maxim Kusnetsov, 16, a junior running back and defensive lineman who was the 2016 state wrestling champion in the 98-pound division.

Before television was widely viewed in Voznesenka, some residents drove 25 miles to Homer and rented hotel rooms to watch college games and the N.F.L. These days, traditional embroidered shirts worn by boys occasionally feature logos of the Seahawks, Broncos and Patriots on the collar instead of typical floral designs.

At nearby Razdolna School, ceiling tiles in the science classroom were painted with logos of the Saints, Cardinals, Steelers, Panthers and Falcons. On Mondays during football season, the science teacher, Ryan Miller, an assistant coach at Voznesenka, showed N.F.L. highlights for an hour.

Michael Wojciak, the principal at Voznesenka School who, like Zank, was not an Old Believer but wore a beard, in part, to respect local tradition, said: “There’s a fear by some that ‘We’re losing our culture, our identity.’ But the flip side is, if you don’t offer something, you’ll lose the kids.”

Still, football is of only secondary importance in these Old Believer villages. Sports are scheduled around more than 40 religious celebrations held each year. On Sundays, church begins as early as 2 a.m. and lasts four to six hours. And athletes have to adjust their diets according to certain restrictions.

Meat and dairy are prohibited on Wednesdays and Fridays. And the opening of the 2017 football season coincided in the Julian calendar with a two-week period of dietary restrictions, when fish was also mostly excluded, ahead of the Feast of the Assumption.

Work, too, was viewed by many as more urgent — and far more lucrative — than sports. Nikit Martushev, 17, a senior, had played tackle as a freshman, but he resisted entreaties to rejoin the team. He had been a boat captain since he was 14, and while football players expectantly awaited a game, he planned to go long-lining for cod. Soon, he would be moose hunting.

“I wanted time for myself,” Martushev said. “With football, I had no time to do anything else.”

While many in Voznesenka appreciated the value of teamwork in sports, some feared that football players risked serious injury, which could disrupt their livelihoods. Or that athletes would pursue empty hopes of college or professional careers.

“I don’t think it’s possible here. Who knows?” said Anisia White, a village elder and a bilingual tutor at Voznesenka School. “They could end up without anything.”

But Nikit Anufriev wanted to give it a shot. At times, he was the only player to lift weights at Zank’s house after practice. Sometimes he ran in a weighted vest in the morning before school.

“People say, ‘Don’t go to college; you’re not going to get anywhere, it’s a waste of time,’” Anufriev said. “But I want to try something new. To see the world is a big thing.”

At the wrestling camp, it felt electric to be around athletes who had the same passion he had. Months later, he had reached the 2016 Alaska state wrestling semifinals. A scholarship seemed newly possible. He had begun researching small colleges in the Midwest.

“I want to be in the spotlight,” he said.

• • •

As the football team practiced nearby, girls on the Voznesenka cross-country team ran three miles along a quiet road. One of them, Domna Basargin, 15, a 10th grader, had considered playing football, too.

“Knocking down people sounds really fun,” she said.

In such a conservative community, it perhaps seemed unlikely that girls would play football anytime soon. But, encouraged by their parents, and some teachers, they had begun in the last four or five years to ask a vital question: If boys can have opportunities for sport, why can’t we?

Girls and women in Voznesenka wear long, brightly colored dresses to their ankles, many with sleeves to their wrists. Married women cover their uncut hair with scarves. High-school girls are given traditional chores at home — cleaning, sewing, cooking, babysitting. But more of them are also exploring sports.

“It’s fun to push yourself to the limit,” said Elena Basargin, 16, a junior on the soccer team. Her mother, Efimia, a Russian-language teacher, was the Voznesenka School chess champion in 1996, but had no opportunity to play varsity sports. She encouraged Elena to join a team to stay fit and active.

“There is value to working well with others,” Efimia Basargin said. “There has to be something fun besides reading and writing.”

Nikolaevsk, another Old Believer village on the Kenai Peninsula that is considered less conservative, has become a state basketball power. In 2014, Nianiella Dorvall became the first girl from Nikolaevsk to receive a college basketball scholarship, to a community college in Washington.

Dorvall, now 21, has stopped playing basketball to pursue her pre-med studies at Washington State, but said she encouraged Old Believers to pursue sports. “You can maintain your customs, beliefs and traditions while going out into this Americanized world and doing something with your life that you can bring back to your village,” she said. “Or you can share your customs and beliefs with everyone else.”

Change in Voznesenka is inevitable, said White, the village elder. To preserve core beliefs, adults must help children “understand what is important and essential to hold onto.”

When it comes to sports, each family is left to decide what is considered acceptable. Some girls on the cross-country team run in tights. But Vasilisa Basargin, 15, a sophomore, trains in long dresses and said she was unlikely to compete in meets away from Old Believer communities.

“I don’t want to go outside,” she said. “I’m not comfortable.”

The Voznesenka soccer team satisfied concerns about modesty by outfitting players in shorts that extended just above the knee. A soccer ball could get lost in the hemline of a long dress, Frosia Polushkin, the coach, said with a laugh.

“It’s a new century,” Polushkin said. “We Old Believers want to be up with the times.”

• • •

A rumor began to spread that Voznesenka would cancel its home opener and forfeit the entire season. The Cougars’ first opponent, Monroe Catholic High School, faced an uncertain 11-hour drive from Fairbanks.

But Zank was confident that Voznesenka would scrape together a full team, if just barely. More players were returning from fishing. At practices, the mood felt relaxed, loose. Kusnetsov, the running back and wrestling champion, was obsessed with ‘80s rock music. He arrived one day blasting Bruce Springsteen’s “Born in the U.S.A.” from his car.

“The greatest American singer ever,” Kusnetsov said of Springsteen. “It would be Kenny Loggins, but he doesn’t have enough patriotic songs.”

Regularly, players teased Anthony Kalugin, 15, the team’s starting quarterback, who did not bother with the trifling notion that a pre-practice snack should be light and nutritious. “He’s got a gravy dispenser hooked to his car battery,” Kusnetsov said.

Finally, last Friday afternoon, hours before the opening game, 11 players showed up at practice. Voznesenka had an official team. Zank grabbed an ax from an assistant coach’s truck and drove it into a stump. Then he told a story that, strictly speaking, was more designed for motivation than accuracy.

The ax had once belonged to an Old Believer who used it to fend off a bear attack on his family, Zank told the players. “Tomorrow, you guys be the ax,” he said, his voice growing low. “Be sharp, be solid. Slay that friggin’ bear.”

Early Saturday morning, players drove their cars 45 minutes to Homer High School, arriving at 8 a.m., three hours before kickoff. Two additional players joined them, one from vacation, another from a belated ferry ride, bringing the roster to 13. Now the Cougars had a couple of substitutes.

“I woke up on the right side of the bed,” Anufriev, the center and defensive end, told his teammates with a smile. “You guys should thank me. The key to being in beast mode is to be happy.”

Players gathered in a classroom and watched video of Monroe Catholic’s previous game. Kalugin went into a home economics kitchen and cooked a pot of oatmeal for his teammates. He set out syrup, almonds and peanut butter for toppings. According to Old Believer custom, no outsiders could prepare food or handle plates or utensils.

The players began to dress in black helmets, black jerseys and black pants. Beneath the jerseys, each wore a thin woven belt of a type he had worn since baptism.

For Antonin Murachev, 14, a sophomore running back and defensive back, this first game of the season might also be his last. His father was fishing and his mother needed him to chop wood, clean the garage and work in the garden.

Wojciak, the principal, said he would speak to Murachev’s parents “to see if he can play at least the home games.”

Some players said they were nervous. This did not include Daniel Anufriev, 16, a junior lineman and Nikit’s brother. He sprayed himself with cologne in the locker room. “I want to smell good,” he said.

On a warm-up field, Zank gathered the Cougars and told them that no other team could be so competitive with so few players. “You’re tougher,” Zank said.

And he brought up the ax again.

“Slay that bear!”

At halftime, Voznesenka trailed only 10-0.

David Sanarov, 17, a senior linebacker, seemed to make every tackle. He was quiet and polite, not given to emotion. But he was ubiquitous, and had been named the 2016 defensive player of the year in the Peninsula Conference, in which Voznesenka played.

He often wore a black bandanna bearing the Stars and Stripes and taped a message to his helmet that said, “Hope.” He, too, was interested in college, but said his mother objected, telling him: “People who went off to college got further from the religion. It’s better if you stay here.”

“I’m fine with it,” Sanarov said.

Early in the second half, he returned a kickoff for an apparent touchdown, cutting through a warren of futile lunges. But the return was nullified by a penalty. Voznesenka began to deflate. The final score was 26-0.

“Pretty good for one practice together,” said Sam Buenting, an assistant coach and Zank’s brother.

The outcome was encouraging, but also frustrating. With two or three weeks of practice with a full team, Voznesenka could have probably won the game. But each season seemed to begin the same way: Could have … What if …

“It’ll get better,” a Monroe Catholic assistant coach told Zank before the game. “Stay with it.”

Zank smiled.

“I tell myself that every year,” he said.

MELBOURNE, Australia — Most weekends, in stadiums across Australia, thousands of spectators line the stands to take in the Australian Football League. And on most weekends, they can see Sam Gilbert, a defender with the St. Kilda Saints, arrive for match day wearing a rainbow-striped gay pride beanie.

Mr. Gilbert, 30, epitomizes the modern A.F.L. player: tall and athletic — and mindful of equality. He’s straight, but he joins a pride march every year.

“I want to help,” he said after a recent practice. “I want to be a straight ally and be a voice.”

On Saturday, St. Kilda played in its second annual pride match: an awareness-raising game heavily featuring the signature pride rainbow, including on each player’s uniform. It is just one example of how the A.F.L. — one of the top sports leagues in the world in terms of average attendance, roughly on par with American baseball — has tried to present itself as a force for inclusion.

By some estimates, almost half of the league’s fans are women, and over the past few years, the league has introduced events and matches that raise awareness of breast cancer as well as gay pride, and also celebrate the country’s Indigenous and multicultural populations.

Some fans like James Krstic, a St. Kilda supporter, find it all a bit much, arguing that the league is too involved in social issues. “I think a sport is a sport and should remain as such,” he said.

But the league’s push into L.G.B.T. politics comes at a time when Australia’s government is stalled on gay marriage, with lawmakers caught up in an endless debate about whether gay marriage should be addressed in Parliament or by referendum, if at all. And for some activists, the A.F.L. has become an unlikely ally, showing how sports can move faster than politics.

“If the A.F.L. was a parliament, we’d have marriage equality now,” said Clint McGilvray, who works with the Equality Campaign, a national effort to expand Australia’s marriage laws. “We wouldn’t be having this discussion.”

Still, the A.F.L. has struggled mightily with issues of equality. Incidents of racial vilification, sexism and homophobia have continued to tarnish the league’s image. Recently, a popular player-turned-presenter was accused of transphobic behavior after referring to Caitlyn Jenner as “it” on a popular weekly A.F.L. TV show.

Many players and fans see the league — like Australia itself — as still in transition to a more uncertain future.

So far, no A.F.L. player, current or retired, has come out as gay, even though some players and trainers believe there are several who could. Some argue that that act may be the real measure of cultural change.

“The A.F.L. have never acknowledged that there’s a problem to be fixed,” said Jason Ball, a former amateur footballer who became the sport’s most high-profile gay player when he revealed his homosexuality in 2012. “The fact that no players have felt comfortable to come out is reflective of that.”

Game Time

On a cold Saturday night this month, old and new versions of Australian masculinity were on display inside St. Kilda’s locker rooms.

“We’ve got to have the balls to go out there and play our game,” an assistant coach barked before game.

The players wandered around the locker room purposefully, hugging each of their teammates, one by one.

It was not a gay pride-themed game, but among the St. Kilda cheer squad’s oversized pompoms and giant banners, a pair of pride flags waved with each goal.

“The culture of the league is changing,” said Sharon Baynes, a longtime Saints supporter wearing a rainbow scarf. “Hopefully, soon there might be a gay player coming out.”

Shannon Downey, a 32-year-old fan who has played Australian rules football since he was a child, was more skeptical. Reflecting a view that is common among sports fans in the United States, Mr. Downey said the league’s displays of social conscience were mostly a business strategy.

“It’s getting a bit farcical, the number of initiatives they’re pushing down people’s throats,” he said. “They’re running a corporation that’s trying to capture as much of the market as they can.”

League officials insist that their commitment is real. Eddie McGuire, the president of the Collingwood Magpies, is a prominent, divisive figure who has alienated some progressive fans and players with off-color jokes. Still, even he argues that the league is ahead of Australian society on progressive issues.

“I’ll back the A.F.L. and its clubs ahead of every institution in this country: churches, politicians, political parties, businesses, universities — the lot,” he said. “I’m absolutely serious.”

Mr. McGilvray, the marriage equality activist, said he appreciated Mr. McGuire’s enthusiasm, but he noted that “we have many organizations — sporting clubs, religious institutions, corporations, councils — all having a crack in their own way.”

If there were issues that were unresolved, Mr. McGuire added, that was simply because the league reflected the larger context of Australia and human nature. “There are people who are still bigoted,” he said. “Or are frightened. Or don’t understand.”

Many players, fans and officials say that the league’s evolution on sexuality cannot be understood without first reflecting on its fraught history with minorities.

In April 1993, Nicky Winmar, an Indigenous player for St. Kilda, was on the receiving end of racist taunts from the Magpies cheer squad. As the match ended, with the Saints victorious, he lifted his shirt in defiance, staring down the crowd as he pointed to his bare skin.

It became a watershed moment for the league. Two years later, a rule banning racial vilification was introduced.

But the years since have been littered with racially charged incidents.

In 2015, Adam Goodes, the most accomplished Indigenous player in the league’s history, spent the twilight of his career draped in boos, after he had security eject a young woman who called him an ape.

In April, the Adelaide Crows player Eddie Betts was also called an ape by an opposing team’s fan on a Facebook post that went viral. Last year, Mr. Betts had a banana thrown at him by a fan of the same team.

Mr. Winmar, who altered Australia’s debate on race when he lifted his shirt, said the A.F.L. was on the right path to mending its divides. The pride game represents an intersection for Mr. Winmar, whose once-estranged son is gay.

“It’s fantastic,” he said in a telephone interview. “Letting people know that they’re safe being who they are, to fulfill their full potential, it’s important.”

Mr. Gilbert of St. Kilda said that on the field, the culture had already changed. Homophobic “sledging,” or trash talk, was now rarely if ever heard, he said.

“People are starting to understand that it’s not right to say — that goes with not just sexual orientation, that’s religion and race, too,” he said.

Australia’s lawmakers continue to insult each over gay marriage (this week, former Prime Minister Tony Abbott told his fellow conservatives to “grow a pair” and confront the issue by referendum). But for the A.F.L., melding tackles and bumps with the pride rainbow is increasingly the way to go.

On a recent Saturday night in Melbourne, not a half-hour after Mr. Gilbert arrived in his rainbow beanie, a young family filed into an elevator at Etihad Stadium. Inside, wedged between his mother and older brother, a boy no older than 5 wore a pride beanie from last year’s game.

Emblazoned across the front, it read, “How I want to be.”