MINNEAPOLIS — A compelling, high-scoring game between teams from major markets that isn’t decided until the final couple of minutes is what television executives dream of when they pay hundreds of millions of dollars for the rights to broadcast the Super Bowl.

That was exactly what NBC got Sunday night, and while the network was rewarded with by far the largest television audience since last year’s Super Bowl, even the season’s biggest game was not entirely immune from the ratings drop that has afflicted the N.F.L. over the past two seasons.

NBC said 103.4 million viewers watched the Super Bowl on television — 106 million if digital streaming is included — making it the 10th most watched program in television history. Last year, 111.3 million viewers saw New England’s comeback victory over Atlanta on TV; the viewership on Sunday was the lowest for a Super Bowl since 98.7 million people watched Super Bowl XLIII between the Pittsburgh Steelers and the Arizona Cardinals in 2009.

The actual broadcast of the game was stellar, aside from Justin Timberlake’s critically panned halftime performance and a brief blackout during a second-quarter commercial break that NBC attributed to an “equipment failure.”

NBC needed a big Super Bowl win in the worst way, and depending upon your perspective, the network might have achieved it. The 7 percent ratings decline from last year’s Super Bowl was less than the drop for its flagship “Sunday Night Football” broadcasts, which fell 11 percent this season.

Advertising revenue dropped across the N.F.L., and networks were forced to give away free commercials to advertisers because of missed ratings guarantees. NBC also lost money televising “Thursday Night Football” the past two seasons, leading it to submit a low bid to retain the rights. Fox won the bidding to show it for the next five seasons.

NBC said it expected $500 million in advertising revenue from the Super Bowl, where commercials were sold for about $5 million for each 30-second time slot.

But the importance of this Super Bowl to NBC went beyond ratings and any revenue it took directly from ad sales. The Winter Olympics are coming — the opening ceremony in Pyeongchang, South Korea, is Friday, and the Games end Feb. 25 — and NBC is the first network to broadcast the Super Bowl and the Winter Olympics in the same year since CBS did so in 1992.

The network persuaded many advertisers to buy package deals of commercial time during both the Super Bowl and Olympics, and, as you might have noticed (and then noticed again and again), NBC used the Super Bowl as a giant platform to promote the Games.

The network knows it has to educate many American viewers. Pyeongchang, not exactly a familiar location, is also in an unfavorable time zone for NBC, 14 hours ahead of the East Coast. NBC used its captive Super Bowl audience to try to excite people about some of the athletes and events they will see over the next three weeks.

The network’s pregame show featured almost as much talk about the Olympics as it did for football, and a 60-second ad featuring the American skier Lindsey Vonn aired during halftime.

One familiar face will be absent from his usual perch at the Games: Bob Costas, who has been the prime-time host of every NBC Olympic broadcast since the Barcelona Games in 1992. The network lured Mike Tirico away from ESPN in 2016 as Costas’s long-term replacement, and last year decided he would be the face of the Pyeongchang Olympics.

Costas was still expected to host Super Bowl coverage with Tirico already in South Korea, however, but that job instead went to Dan Patrick and Liam McHugh. Costas told SportsBusiness Journal last month that he has “long had ambivalent feelings about football” and that the game should be hosted by someone who is “more enthusiastic” about the sport.

Costas has indeed been vocal in recent years about his discomfort with the connection between playing football and head trauma. Those concerns were borne out in stark fashion during the Super Bowl, when Patriots wide receiver Brandin Cooks was ruled out of the game after suffering a brutal, but legal, helmet-to-helmet hit in the second quarter.

While concerns about concussions are most likely one of the factors that have led to the N.F.L.’s regular season ratings decline, the fact that the Super Bowl viewership drop was less severe than the regular season decrease drives home the fact that the N.F.L.’s problem is the frequency with which hard-core fans watch rather than casual fans turning off the television.

According to Mike Mulvihill, Fox Sports’ head of research and planning, while total N.F.L. viewership has dropped 19 percent over the last two seasons, the league’s reach — meaning the total number of people watching some part of a game — has declined just 4 percent.

People are watching less football, but they still tune in for the big events.

A little more than three years ago, Jerome Baker of Cleveland was viewed by some as the top high school football prospect in Ohio. Urban Meyer, Ohio State’s coach, and his staff had pressed him hard for a commitment, but Baker, a linebacker, rejected their overtures and instead chose Florida.

Baker said at the time that he wanted to play against the best. In 2014, that meant playing in the Southeastern Conference — whose members had recently won seven straight national titles — as opposed to the Big Ten.

“The SEC is the biggest test,” he told The New York Times that fall.

Baker suited up on Saturday afternoon, as predicted, as one of college football’s top linebackers. He faced the Heisman Trophy contender Saquon Barkley, a running back who presented as big a test as there could be. But Baker did it in Ohio State’s scarlet and gray, and the No. 6 Buckeyes (7-1, 5-0 Big Ten) came up with a huge win, beating Barkley and No. 2 Penn State (7-1, 4-1), 39-38, in Columbus.

The story of how Baker arrived at this point is specific to him, but his career trajectory is also a microcosm of the most unexpected on-field college football story this decade: the rebirth of the Big Ten, college sports’ oldest and in many ways most esteemed conference, whose teams dominated football from the 1930s through the 1960s.

Three years ago, pundits were writing obituaries for the conference in its signature sport. The league’s teams won only one national title in the 16 years of the Bowl Championship Series, and only one in the quarter-century before that. The conference bell cows Ohio State and Penn State had been hit by sanctions and scandal, while Michigan was struggling through the second of two straight unsuccessful coaching regimes. The conference’s newest members — Nebraska, Maryland and Rutgers — seemed awkward fits.

Meanwhile, the SEC was exploiting its home states’ booms in population and in football prospects and plowing unprecedented cable television revenue into higher coaching salaries, bigger stadiums and better facilities. Elsewhere, upstarts like Baylor and Oregon developed innovative offensive schemes that would go on to change the way many teams in other conferences played.

The SEC is not exactly going anywhere — Alabama is having one of the great runs of success in college football history — but any fair assessment of the landscape would suggest that the Big Ten is challenging for the distinction of being the top league.

Four Big Ten teams are ranked in this week’s Associated Press Top 25 — three are in the top six — with a fifth, Michigan, likely to make its way back in. Purdue has its most promising coach in a decade, Jeff Brohm, and Minnesota and Maryland recently hired two of the most coveted young coaches, P. J. Fleck and D. J. Durkin.

In the three years of the four-team College Football Playoff, the Big Ten has always had a contender — something that cannot be said of the Big 12 or the Pacific-12. And that national title drought? It ended in the 2014 season, which was capped by Ohio State’s victories over Alabama and Oregon in the inaugural College Football Playoff.

In many ways, the Big Ten has ridden the same characteristics that delivered Baker to Columbus: good coaching, stability, recruiting prowess and luck.

Baker switched his college commitment in the fall of 2014 when it became likely that Florida would change head coaches. It helped that Ohio State’s Meyer and his staff, according to Baker, “never gave up on me.”

“Florida was going in their own direction,” Baker said in a recent interview. “I loved Florida. For my future, it wasn’t the best option.”

The Big Ten was never going to be down forever. Its biggest teams are too prestigious, and its fan bases too large and too valuable to broadcasters. It presciently introduced the Big Ten Network a decade ago, and new television contracts that bring in $240 million a year solidified its place as the richest conference in college sports (challenged only, of course, by the SEC).

But the arrivals of several pedigreed coaches — Meyer, who joined Ohio State in 2012; James Franklin, who departed Vanderbilt, of the SEC, for Penn State before the 2014 season; and Jim Harbaugh, the Michigan alumnus who returned to Ann Arbor for the 2015 season — created a rising tide that lifted all boats and changed the way the Big Ten did business.

“The influx of new, very strong coaches coming into the league, some emphasizing recruiting and in some cases national recruiting, made everyone in the league pick up their game,” said Barry Alvarez, Wisconsin’s athletic director and former football coach.

Meyer initially ruffled feathers in the Big Ten with recruiting tactics that, while not illicit, were aggressive by conference standards. In Baker’s case, Meyer’s staff was polite and respectful but firm in insisting that Baker, even after he had committed to Florida, would always have a home in Columbus.

“He came from an environment where recruiting was 365 days a year and hostile and competitive,” the ESPN analyst Todd Blackledge, an Ohio native and a former Penn State quarterback, said of Meyer. “And he came into the Big Ten and he maintained” that type of recruiting, Blackledge added, “and some of the coaches in that league weren’t used to that.”

Meyer responded to the criticism not by relenting but by urging rival coaches to match his efforts, telling a radio host that the conference needed “to keep pushing that envelope to be better.”

Said Blackledge: “He forced other teams in that league to raise their level to keep up with him.”

High school prospects noticed that the Big Ten was cool again, according to Josh Helmholdt, a Midwest-based reporter for Rivals.com, which covers college recruiting. “When you have those teams recruiting better and the Big Ten being a brighter star,” he said, “then the rest of the conference also improves in terms of their national appeal and brand.”

One way for the Big Ten to sustain its current level of competitiveness might be not to buy into the hype that it has become this competitive. Restrained expectations, whether deriving from fallow seasons or from a stereotypically gentle Midwestern outlook, can actually be an asset in a landscape where programs in other conferences are all too quick to cut bait on underperforming coaches (for instance, Florida, which is still paying Will Muschamp, the coach who initially persuaded Baker to go to Gainesville, even as he coaches South Carolina, a division rival of the Gators).

“I see a lot of movement in the Southeastern Conference,” Alvarez said. He recalled speaking to a local fan club of one SEC team a couple of years ago and thinking: “This is tough. One loss, and they’re about ready to run someone out of town.”

By contrast, programs like Iowa and Michigan State have stood by their highly regarded coaches, Kirk Ferentz and Mark Dantonio, through subpar seasons that might have doomed them elsewhere.

Bob Lattinville, an agent with the Spencer Fane firm, suggested that the Big Ten’s previous lows were directly related to its current highs.

“In 2014, maybe the shine had come off,” he said. “That can be helpful, in the sense that if your fan base’s expectations aren’t out of whack, or your biggest booster isn’t threatening to withhold a check, that’s helpful.”

For now, the Big Ten will bask in its success.

And after Saturday, Baker could take pleasure in a big win and in Barkley’s limited success. After returning the opening kickoff 97 yards for a touchdown, Barkley rushed for a 36-yard score but ended up with 44 yards on 21 carries.

“He’s getting all this praise,” Baker said of Barkley ahead of the game. “To me, that’s a real challenge and real accomplishment — it’s like, I’m going against the best.”

Starting half a century ago, some boys from the Good Shepherd School in the Inwood neighborhood of Manhattan had a special cheer for when they attended Columbia University football games up the street.

“Gimme a C!” the mainstream cheer began, going on to spell out the Ivy League institution’s full name. The locals would follow with their own cheer, which began, “Gimme a K!”

“We spelled Columbia with a K,” explained Andre Brown, who grew up nearby and still returns to Columbia’s Upper Manhattan stadium for games, “because the college kids there always thought they were smarter than us.”

This familiar “town versus gown” dynamic is more understandable when the town in question is a typical university-dominated city like Austin, Tex., or Madison, Wis. But any New York City neighborhood is its own kind of town, and so it is only natural that for those who lived near the only college or pro football stadium in Manhattan, Columbia was simply the home team and cheering on the usually hapless Lions was no less a rite of fall than trick-or-treating or playing in fallen leaves.

“There was no one in the stands, unless it was homecoming,” said Pat Holland, 59, who grew up on 213th Street. “The old field with a wooden stand — there was no back support. Troughs in the bathroom. It was phenomenal.”

Rarely have Columbia fans rooted for a better team. After defeating Penn in overtime on homecoming last weekend, the Lions are 5-0 for the first time since 1996, 2-0 in the Ivy League. They play Dartmouth (5-0, 2-0) on the road on Saturday in an unlikely battle for first place.

The attendance at last week’s home game — more than 13,000 — was the team’s largest since 2003, a university spokesman said. And continued success under Al Bagnoli, who won nine Ivy League championships when he was Penn’s coach, has allowed fans to imagine what once seemed unthinkable: Columbia’s first conference title in football since 1961.

That Columbia would have neighborhood fans — especially those with no ties to the university beyond location — seems inapposite. Ivy League football is not the stuff of mass interest even among its best teams.

But why not? Wien Stadium, formerly Baker Field, and still called that by some traditionalists, is just around the corner (unlike Columbia’s actual campus, which is 100 blocks south).

“You could look through my window and see the game,” said Gerard Dowd, 60, who grew up on 218th Street and Seaman Avenue. “My dad used to watch from the apartment.”

Even parts of the Bronx, a borough that does host a prominent sports team which is playing its own meaningful games this month, are Lions territory. “We lived closer to Baker Field than to Yankee Stadium,” said Harry Enten, 29, a journalist at the website FiveThirtyEight, referring to Riverdale, his childhood neighborhood. “I grew up on West 246th. You take the Broadway Bridge right across, and an easy right off of it.”

“It was something where you really had to want to do it,” Enten said of going to watch Columbia. “In Ann Arbor, everyone goes, and that’s great for the community, but you can be a fan without really being a fan.”

Wien Stadium was built on the site of Baker Field, one of the last stadiums with wooden bleachers, which was torn down in 1982. (It took Columbia nearly five seasons to win a game in its new home, which opened in 1984.) It now anchors an athletics complex on a spit of land at the northern tip of Manhattan Island, tucked in near the mound of old-growth forest that is Inwood Hill Park and bounded by a curve in the Harlem River.

Back in the 1960s and ’70s, residents said, the neighborhood was predominantly middle-class Irish-American. In the summer, children swam in the river. On fall Saturdays, they went to Columbia football games, typically at no cost — it helped that the Good Shepherd men’s club ran the ticket-taking operation.

“One experience that’s changed,” said Brown, 60, “is now I have to pay.”

The children collected game balls that were kicked into 218th Street after field goals and extra points, tossing them around and running away from the police, and stowing them for future pickup games played at Baker Field after hours.

As they got older, their game day experience changed but they kept coming. Blackberry brandy became a staple of cold afternoons. Old friends met a few hours early at an Irish pub in the Bronx, near the last stop on the 1 train, and traveled down before kickoff. Before Columbia’s offensive drives, someone would shout, “Ding ding ding! Window is open!” and bets would be placed.

“I was usually the bank,” Holland said. “I would say, ‘Columbia will be three and a kick.’ Someone would say, ‘Give me that for two dollars.’ Before you know it, maybe you have five or six guys yelling at you.”

There was even the occasional road trip.

“We rented a school bus to go to Princeton to see them lose,” Brown said.

Indeed, these fans’ dedication is especially notable given that the team was frequently not only not worth writing home about, but not worth leaving home to watch. From 1963 to 1993 the Lions had only one winning season, bottoming out in the 1980s with a  44-game losing streak.

Better teams “would have been nice,” Dowd said. “But it’s not like it’s the SEC.”

Some local fans have passed on the Columbia tradition to the next generation. Brown’s 23-year-old daughter, Brittany, who grew up in Riverdale, recalled waiting outside the locker room for the Columbia mascot, Roar-ee the Lion, to emerge. Enten’s father, Harold, a judge, had seen the great Columbia quarterback Sid Luckman play while growing up in the Bronx.

And if they have not moved far away — Holland is now in California — they still pop in for games from time to time. While the team’s name and colors belong to the university, they know there is a part of the whole thing that only they can sustain.

The college students “are only there for four years,” Holland said. “We were there for decades. And there’s guys still going.”

TAMPA, Fla. — Russell Wilson looked very much at home in pinstripes Monday, when he suited up to take batting practice and ground balls with the Yankees.

Wilson, the Seattle Seahawks quarterback and former minor league baseball player, whose rights were acquired by the Yankees during the off-season, smoothly fielded grounders at second base and did not look out of place while taking swings in a group with the Yankees’ biggest sluggers: Aaron Judge, Giancarlo Stanton, Gary Sanchez and Greg Bird.

Wilson muscled six balls over the wall with his 33 ½-inch, 31-ounce Russell Wilson-model bat — including on a last-pitch situational drill: two outs, bottom of the ninth.

“I think he’s been out here early taking swings, because he took a couple out to left, and he took one out to center,” Judge said. “I think he’s been practicing.”

Wilson, though, insisted the only work he had done was some soft-toss drills over the weekend.

“I’ve been doing it my whole life ever since I was 2, 3, 4 years old,” said Wilson, who participated in spring training drills in 2013 and 2014 with the Texas Rangers, the team that previously held his rights. “This is what I know. This is what I’ve known my whole life. Now, I couldn’t just go step on the basketball court. But baseball — it’s like riding a bike.”

Wilson plans to spend the week working out with the Yankees, but will not play in any exhibition games for fear of injury — though he is not prohibited from doing so by the Seahawks.

If Wilson moved easily among the Yankees on Monday — he also addressed the team in a meeting — there are a number of Yankees who have enough football bona fides to find some common ground. Infielder Jace Peterson was a free safety at McNeese State, and the third-base coach Phil Nevin was a freshman all-American at Cal State Fullerton.

Then there were others who could have played in college: Pitcher C. C. Sabathia signed a letter of intent to play tight end at Hawaii; Jacoby Ellsbury, who returned six kickoffs for touchdowns in high school, was recruited by Oregon; and Sonny Gray was an accomplished quarterback growing up in Tennessee, where he had several scholarship offers before sticking with baseball at Vanderbilt.

But the two Yankees who most likely had the best chance to forge a career in football are the two who look the part — Stanton and Judge. Stanton is 6 feet 6 inches, 245 pounds, and Judge is 6-foot-7, 282 pounds. Both were star receivers in high school — coincidentally, each wore No. 2 — before dropping football in favor of a baseball career.

“They’d definitely be tight ends,” Wilson said.

“We have a running joke, me and Jimmy Graham, how he looks like Aaron Judge and how Judge looks like him,” Wilson added, referring to Seattle’s five-time Pro Bowl tight end. “I was telling Aaron earlier, Jimmy, I think, wore his jersey for Halloween.”

While Stanton was an elite baseball prospect at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif., he did not catch the eye of college football recruiters until his senior season — when in the season opener he caught a touchdown pass and scored on the ensuing 2-point conversion to win the game, leaping above a defender for both balls.

Stanton took a recruiting visit to Southern California, attending a football game and having lunch over the weekend with Pete Carroll, then the U.S.C. football coach and now Wilson’s coach with the Seahawks. Carroll also came to watch Stanton play basketball.

“Mike was an excellent prospect in high school, and we knew he had a ton of potential,” Carroll said via email through a team spokesman. “We truly saw him as a multisport athlete, which is rare at that level. He was so good at both sports that we would have wanted him to play both if he came to ‘SC.’”

In his two years at Notre Dame — he transferred to the private school after spending two years at Verdugo Hills, a public school — Stanton played with at least 10 others who earned college scholarships. One of Stanton’s more memorable matchups came against one of Wilson’s teammates — the loquacious Richard Sherman.

What did Stanton remember about it?

“I just remember them kicking our butts,” said Stanton, whose team had its 35-game winning streak ended by Sherman’s Dominguez High School in a 41-14 route in the CIF-Southern Section Division III championship game. “They wore us down.”

“They were talking crap, but I didn’t put it to just Sherman,” added Stanton, who was sometimes matched up against Sherman. “They were all talking stuff because they were the inner-city school and we were the privileged school. I went to public school, too, so I know what they were feeling.”

Brandon Huffman, the national recruiting editor for 24/7 Sports, recalled how fast and fluid Stanton looked. “It was like he glided downfield,” Huffman said. “It didn’t look like he was that fast, but he had long strides. It was like watching a center fielder who knows how much ground he has to cover.”

Judge, like Stanton, was a three-sport standout, playing football, basketball and baseball in Linden, Calif., a Central Valley farming community just east of Stockton.

While Judge received recruiting interest from Notre Dame, Washington and U.C.L.A., he made it clear to most schools that he was interested in playing only baseball. A few, such as Eastern Michigan and Portland State, offered to let him play both, but Judge thought playing two sports — along with the academic challenges of college — would be too much, so he focused on baseball at Fresno State.

“I thought if I could find a place where I could just play baseball, that would be great,” he said.

Further dampening the idea of playing football was the fact that he might not have played receiver. Judge, who was a Cal fan — in part because his older brother John went to school there — attended a football camp in Berkeley before his senior season.

“They knew I enjoyed football, but that I had baseball on the mind,” Judge said. “The receiver coach said, ‘I like you, but we’ll bulk you up and put you at tight end, to be honest.’”

If that idea did not appeal to Judge at the time, he did not seem put off that Wilson viewed him as a tight end, figuring that Wilson would make him look good with a few passes.

Wilson did not have a football with him, but said he would by the end of the week. Just as he is showing off what he might do with a baseball bat in his hands, Judge and Stanton might be able to show what they can do with a football in theirs.

“You might catch us out on a backfield running some routes,” Judge said with a smile.

INSIDE PITCH

Outfielder Clint Frazier was found to have a concussion. He had complained of fogginess and a headache after crashing into the outfield wall twice in Saturday’s game against Pittsburgh. Frazier said Monday that he felt fine and would ride a stationary bike on Tuesday to determine if exercise would cause the symptoms to return.

They could have been any two billionaire schmucks taking an evening stroll through Manhattan. Robert Kraft and Arthur Blank, the owners of the New England Patriots and the Atlanta Falcons, respectively, had met up at the Plaza Hotel, where Kraft keeps an apartment. It was a warm night in August, and they decided to forgo the usual limo and head to dinner on foot.

Passers-by who recognized them on the street expressed mild surprise that Kraft and Blank, the rival owners from last February’s Super Bowl, would be seen together. Kraft and Blank shared a few laughs over this. They are in fact close friends of similar age (Blank is 75, Kraft 76), background (observant Jews from the Northeast, Blank from Queens and Kraft from Brookline, Mass.), means (multiple billions) and tastes (bespoke suits, younger women). But few bonds run deeper than shared association in this most exclusive club of American fat cats, the 32 magnates who own N.F.L. franchises.

Blank needed to unburden himself of a minor beef with Kraft. It involved the aforementioned Super Bowl LI. After the Falcons blew a late 28-3 lead over the Patriots and lost in overtime, and “28-3” entered the lexicon of football taunts, Kraft ordered exactly 283 diamonds embedded into each of the 10-karat white gold Super Bowl rings he commissioned for the Patriots. Blank, who bought the Falcons in 2002, mostly took the loss and the attendant trolling in stride. But the ring stunt bothered him. He found it unnecessary and tacky. “I said to Robert, ‘You didn’t have to do the 28-3 in the ring,’” he told me recently. “It kind of pissed me off.”

But Blank and Kraft had more important matters to discuss. They had come to New York in their capacities as members of the N.F.L.’s compensation committee, the six owners charged with determining the salaries of the league’s top executives. They would be meeting for dinner in a private room at the Midtown restaurant Patroon to iron out the details of a new five-year contract extension for the N.F.L. commissioner, Roger Goodell. By the terms of the agreement that had been in the works for several months, Goodell stood to make as much as $200 million by 2024 if the league hit its financial targets.

But some other owners had begun grumbling about the deal, at first in private and then very much in public. After all, Goodell would earn this spectacular paycheck despite the fact that, of late, he always seemed to be presiding over some self-inflicted fiasco, and despite the creeping notion that the once-mighty N.F.L. had been operating in a baseline state of turmoil in recent years, if not outright decline. There had been a two-year drop in television ratings, which the league has blamed on factors like the attention-devouring 2016 presidential campaign and a proliferation of “cord-cutting” viewers disrupting the broadcast model (TV accounts for 60 percent of the N.F.L.’s total revenue). But the dip could just as easily have reflected more existential threats to the league. There was the drumbeat of ominous new research about concussions and, with it, a drop in youth participation in football; regular testimonies from former stars about the sad state of their health; and posthumous diagnoses of degenerative brain disease (chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E.).

And that was before the league embarked, in 2017, on its most discordant season in years, replete with player protests, fan furor over the protests and the highly unusual circumstance of an American president using the country’s most popular and profitable sport as ammunition in the country’s culture wars. In the dozen years since Goodell became its commissioner, the juggernaut league had gone from being one of the most unifying institutions in America to the country’s most polarizing sports brand.

It was debatable how large a share of the blame Goodell personally deserved for this trajectory — and Goodell, in any case, was not inclined to accept much of it. “I think it’s a little more reflective of how somewhat divided our society is at this stage,” he told me in early January. But division was the inescapable theme that came up in the two-dozen interviews I conducted with players, owners and league officials about a season in which sponsorships were jeopardized, boycotts were threatened, blacklists against players were suspected, tickets and jerseys were burned and ratings and attendance were down. “There’s no question, this season has been probably unlike anything that I’ve been around,” said Art Rooney II, president of the Pittsburgh Steelers, whose grandfather founded the team in 1933.

The N.F.L. loves to emphasize how football brings friends, families and communities together, and to present the game as an oasis clear of the rest of life’s messiness — or “distractions,” as coaches like to call such extraneous passions as politics. “We offer fans a respite from the trials and missteps of everyday life,” Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, says. That promise would evaporate abruptly in 2017, when the most potent oligarchy in American sports would have its power structure shaken, and arrive at the end of the season wondering: Was 2017 an anomaly or the future?

I went to see  Roger Goodell at the N.F.L.’s headquarters at 345 Park Avenue, the morning after a sluggish docket of first-round playoff games in early January. The commissioner was sitting in his sixth-floor office, sipping water and battling a cold. Goodell, who is 58, wore a beige V-neck sweater and looked somewhat worn down but freshly worked-out; he had just come from a Pilates class at a studio not far from the office. It had been a “challenging” season, Goodell allowed — there are never “problems,” only “challenges” for this commissioner — but every season has its issues. “Never has there been a period in our history where everything’s been great,” he said. “We’ve always had our challenges.”

Goodell, the son of the former Republican senator from New York Charles Goodell, is a gifted political animal. He can come off as stiff and cautious in speeches and on TV — and can in fact be stiff and cautious in person too — but he was also clearly bred for public life, and adept at turning it on as necessary. He is a prodigious slapper of backs, squeezer of shoulders and knower of names. He laughs easily — maybe for real, or maybe not. He has also mastered the paramount political skill of prioritizing constituencies, none more so than the 32 N.F.L. team owners who employ him, the “membership,” as they are known to one another. “You have to be able to deal with and get along with 32 different personalities,” John Mara, the president and an owner of the New York Giants, told me. “We range from people like me who were born in a family business, and people who are self-made billionaires who think they know everything about everything.”

Then there was that other billionaire — the one in the White House. From early in his presidential campaign, Donald Trump held up the N.F.L. as a symbol of the sissified and hypersensitive culture he was running against: “You used to see these tackles, and it was incredible to watch, right?” Trump said at a campaign rally in Nevada in early 2016. “But football has become soft like our country has become soft.”

Culture-war critiques of the N.F.L. were previously mostly confined to the left. Liberals were far more prone to suspicion of football for its violence, militaristic sensibility and over-the-top displays of patriotism. But Trump struck a throbbing nerve on the right, making the N.F.L. an improbable symbol of permissive leadership and political correctness.

Seven months after Trump’s Nevada rally, and just in time for the general election, Colin Kaepernick, the quarterback for the San Francisco 49ers, took to kneeling during the national anthem before preseason games: a protest, he explained, against police brutality endured by African-Americans and other minorities. It was only a matter of time before Trump served up the vegan Kaepernick as red meat to his base. “The N.F.L. is way down in their ratings,” Trump taunted the league at a campaign rally in Greeley, Colo., a week before the election. He said that politics was “a much rougher game than football” and also more exciting. “We’ve taken a lot of people away from the N.F.L.,” Trump boasted. “And the other reason is Kaepernick — Kaepernick!”

Well before Kaepernick was even born, the N.F.L. had figured prominently in the future president’s personal ledger of grievance and unreturned affection. Trump had wanted into the membership for years, even though his earlier foray into football — as the owner of the short-lived United States Football League’s New Jersey Generals in the 1980s — ended disastrously, with the league’s collapse. In 1984, he finagled himself a meeting with the N.F.L. commissioner at the time, Pete Rozelle, at the Pierre Hotel in New York, in which he told Rozelle he would do whatever it took to get himself into the league, according to an account of the meeting in “Football for a Buck,” the sportswriter Jeff Pearlman’s coming book on the U.S.F.L. Rozelle was not impressed.

Rozelle was Goodell’s mentor and idol, almost from the day Goodell set foot at the league in 1982. Rozelle’s dim view of Trump — whom he saw as a clown and a con man — trickled down to his protégé, though Goodell is careful never to share his views on Trump publicly. He has met Trump at least twice over the years, once at a Yankees game about 15 years ago and then a few years later at a small dinner gathering. Goodell found Trump to be pleasant, engaging and solicitous in those limited encounters — maybe because Trump was still, at the time, angling for a place in the membership. In 2014, he tried to buy the Buffalo Bills, only to have his bid passed over. After losing out on Buffalo, Trump lashed out at his owner friends — particularly New England’s Robert Kraft — for not doing more to grease his entry into the league. He also told friends that the N.F.L., particularly Goodell, was intent on freezing him out, on account of his history with the U.S.F.L.

When I interviewed Trump — now a presidential candidate — for an article a year later, he was still nursing a grudge, and on a particular hobbyhorse about how unfairly the league had treated his “great friend” Tom Brady. The New England Patriots quarterback had recently been suspended by the league for four games over his supposed role in the football air-pressure scandal known as Deflategate. Trump knew I had recently written about the N.F.L. and Brady, and he proceeded to deride Goodell to me as a “weak guy,” “a dope” and “a stupid guy,” among other things.

Goodell comes from a notable Republican lineage — albeit of the mostly extinct Northeastern-moderate subspecies — and has donated to Republican candidates. But he is carefully diplomatic in his public politics: “It’s interesting times we live in,” was as much as he allowed himself to say in our interview. The politics of his league were another matter. When you look at the various constituencies that make up the N.F.L. “family,” it’s a wonder the center has held as long as it has. More than 83 percent of N.F.L. fans are white, according to a Reuters report citing a 2007 study, and fans are 20 percent more likely to be Republicans than Democrats. Nearly 70 percent of the players, meanwhile, are black, according to data from the Institute for Diversity and Ethics in Sport. N.F.L. owners, with a few exceptions, lean Republican; several of them donated to Trump’s campaign, and some donated $1 million apiece to his inauguration committee. But unlike Trump, the N.F.L. cannot afford to play only to its base. It needs far more than just the predominately white, heavily male voters that compose Trump’s hard-core coalition. It wants everybody in the football family.

Goodell was in Colorado on the Friday night in September when Trump, at a rally in Alabama, called on N.F.L. owners to fire players who knelt during the national anthem. “Get that son of a [expletive] off the field right now,” Trump said. Joe Lockhart, the N.F.L.’s chief spokesman and former White House press secretary under President Clinton, called Goodell at 5:30 a.m. the following morning to discuss how to proceed.

Goodell’s initial reaction was a mix of anger and resignation. The league’s top executives — Goodell; Jeff Pash, the general counsel; and Tod Leiweke, the chief operating officer — divided up owners to call. The watchword was “unity”: They should present a single front insofar as that would be possible. Owners and teams were encouraged to issue statements, emphasizing their support for their players. Nearly every team did, though very few called out Trump or even mentioned the president. Shahid Khan, the Jacksonville Jaguars’ owner — a Pakistan-born Muslim and the only nonwhite owner in the N.F.L., as well as one of the donors to Trump’s inauguration — joined his team on the field before the game and locked arms in a show of solidarity. Several other owners followed his lead.

Kaepernick’s initial protests in 2016 had inspired roughly a dozen or so players to do the same or similar. But for all the media attention they received, the demonstrations had never reached a critical mass of players or prompted any great fan response. Trump’s provocation in Alabama changed that. “The week before the president made his statement, four people kneeled,” Arthur Blank told me. “The president then said his thing, and then 400 people kneeled.” And even that response, Blank went on, showed signs of dying down within a few days — only to flare up again when Vice President Mike Pence waged (or staged) his own counterprotest, leaving an Oct. 8 Indianapolis Colts game he was attending at taxpayer expense after a group of visiting San Francisco 49ers knelt during the anthem. “A dumb thing,” Blank called Pence’s action.

But Trump and Pence most certainly appealed to a vocal subset of N.F.L. fans. They booed kneeling players and called for boycotts; teams argued politics among themselves, and some former players criticized current ones. (“It’s the first time I’ve ever been ashamed to be a Patriot,” the longtime New England lineman Matt Light said after a dozen current Patriots took a knee.) “No one was expecting this to happen, and it was hard to see coming,” the Steelers’ Art Rooney told me. “I think there was no question it hurt the league.”

Certainly these episodes went well beyond “distraction,” which itself became a term of offense among protesting players. “When people are doing things for kids or natural disasters, nobody considers that a ‘distraction,’” Malcolm Jenkins, the Philadelphia Eagles defensive back, told me this week. “It’s only when you’re talking about racism or police brutality, all of a sudden those things are uncomfortable.” Russell Okung, an offensive tackle for the Los Angeles Chargers, said that the whole sequence of events — begun by Kaepernick, propelled by Trump — had turned the notion of “distraction” into something that could in fact usher in a new period of activism in sports. “Never has our generation been presented with these historic choices,” Okung told me. There could be ramifications inside what has traditionally be an iron-fisted hierarchy inside the N.F.L. That’s the nature of movements: They don’t necessarily respect boundaries.

As with so many things involving Trump, the president’s cannonball into the middle of a relatively contained pool of player protest set off waves in all directions. In the absence of any substantial backlash to the initial Kaepernick-led wave of demonstrations, the N.F.L. could at least tacitly endorse the players’ right to use their platform. But then suddenly not only the president of the United States but also a significant share of Americans were saying “Stand up and stick to sports.” It moved the whole argument onto much more historically explosive — and, in a league where the owner-player divide is also largely a white-black divide, racially charged — grounds. “You guys are cattle, and we’re the ranchers,” the former Dallas Cowboys president Tex Schramm famously told the Hall of Fame offensive lineman and players’ union leader Gene Upshaw during a collective-bargaining negotiation in 1987. The line — oft-quoted to this day — encapsulates both the authority structure of the N.F.L. and an autocratic view held by most of the “ranchers” and many of the paying customers. More recently, during a tense owners’ meeting at the height of the anthem protests in October, the Houston Texans’ owner, Bob McNair, said: “We can’t have the inmates running the prison,” according to an ESPN report. Most people construed the remark as an insult with clear racial overtones against protesting players, nearly all of whom were African-American. (McNair later apologized and claimed that the “inmates” he was referring to were not the players but executives at the league office.)

When I asked Goodell whether he or anyone on his staff had any communication with the White House, back-channel or otherwise, he smirked (I took this as a no). “Our focus is on what we do,” he said. “Our focus is on the game itself.” Nevertheless, owners and league officials close to Goodell said he was more supportive of the protesting players than they would have expected. He resisted pressure to enforce a “stand for the anthem” mandate from more conservative owners — the Dallas Cowboys’ Jerry Jones and the Washington Redskins’ Daniel Snyder among them. Goodell spent hours listening to players’ concerns and meeting with members of the N.F.L. Players Coalition, a newly formed advocacy group dedicated to the racial-justice issues that prompted the anthem protests. The league pledged to the coalition that it would donate $89 million over seven years to social-justice organizations. That was less than half what Goodell’s new salary could bring him in just five years, but the commissioner still drew considerable praise from players who were critical of him in the past. “I was in two meetings with Roger, and I felt like he was sincere in what he was trying to do,” Eric Winston, an offensive tackle for the Cincinnati Bengals and the president of the N.F.L. Players Association, the players’ union, told me. “In hindsight you can always do more, but I do think he has done a very admirable job.”

In conversations with owners, Goodell expressed grudging admiration for Kaepernick (at least until he sued the league in October, claiming collusion on the part of the owners to keep him from playing for another team). If nothing else, he respected Kaepernick’s willingness to stand on principle and take an unpopular position. Goodell’s father had done the same in breaking with a Republican president over Vietnam, and it had cost him his job; the previously friendly Nixon White House turned against him and helped to defeat him in his 1970 re-election campaign. Goodell keeps a copy of the Vietnam Disengagement Act, the bill his father sponsored to end the war, on the wall of his office. He fashions himself a similarly strait-laced man of principle — though principle is a tricky business for an N.F.L. commissioner with many constituencies (and principles) to consider.

If nothing else, Goodell and the players share a boss: the owners. With some exceptions, they are still, in the main, a geriatric boys’ club: a mix of old money and new, sweethearts and criminals, men of enlarged ego and prostate. They are secure in the one position in the N.F.L. that is answerable to no one. They are subject to no re-election campaigns, recall elections or term limits. “I own this football team,” the 49ers’ owner, Jed York, felt compelled to remind a group of reporters after firing his general manger and third coach in three years after the 2016-17 season. “You don’t dismiss owners.” The membership are coveters of high-profile properties who nevertheless generally avoid the spotlight. In most cases, they prefer to let their “football people” — their players and coaches — do the talking. They view themselves as higher-order sportsmen, concerned with the lofty business of legacies.

But the anthem protests dragged certain owners into a spotlight they would otherwise be reluctant to occupy. It forced them to take a public position on a matter where any position would anger a lot of people, be they ticket-holders or players. York himself would emerge as part of a newer, younger and more progressive faction of the membership — outspoken in support of N.F.L. initiatives promoting social justice and community-action causes, and one of the few owners to address reporters during the contentious October meeting in New York, when the owners gathered to discuss the kneeling protests.

“Ultimately, social justice is not a political issue,” York said, holding court in the lobby of the Conrad Hotel in Lower Manhattan. Far from distancing himself from 49ers players that protested, York embraced them. He took pride that it was his team that employed the player who started it all. (Kaepernick opted out of the final year of his contract with the 49ers last March; the team’s general manager, John Lynch, said he would have been released for reasons unrelated to the protests regardless.) “I don’t want to take a bow and say that we did something great and special,” York said. “It happened to start with us. But it started with Colin. And I give Colin so much credit, so much respect for doing something that he knew was going to create backlash.”

The Falcons’ Arthur Blank, too, was generally considered an ally of the players. A few days after Pence’s walkout in Indianapolis, I met Blank in the family office he keeps in Buckhead, the suburban Atlanta neighborhood. Blank is known for his sleekly tailored suits and the pride he takes in them. “I say to the players, ‘You put your uniform on every Sunday, the owner should, too,’” Blank said as he slurped up the last noisy drops of a massive Nutella milkshake he had brought in from a nearby Steak ‘n Shake.

Blank had issued one of the stronger statements in response to Trump, though like the other owners’, it did not mention him specifically. “Creating division or demonizing viewpoints that are different than our own accomplishes nothing positive,” Blank had said. As for the players’ protest, Blank told me when we met: “A lot of what they’re protesting in my view is very legitimate.” When Trump weighed in as he did, he said, “it became a manhood issue” for many of the teams — “or in some cases a brotherhood issue.” He wondered whether Trump’s attacks on the N.F.L. were motivated by “real issues,” or whether they were just “distracting from real issues or other issues having to do with the country.”

Blank’s relative outspokenness also reflects the demographic makeup of his customers. The Falcons’ season-ticket base is 40 percent African-American — a figure that could very well be higher than that of any professional sports team in America. Likewise, Kaepernick’s 2016 protest, and York’s vocal support for it, were bound to receive a more sympathetic hearing in liberal San Francisco than they would have in, say, Dallas, home of the Cowboys and dominion of Jerry Jones.

A devilish Arkansas wildcatter who owns the league’s most valuable team, Jones, 75, fashions himself the biggest, swingingest member of the membership. He likes to make his big opinions known about how the league should be run. For years, while generally supportive of Goodell, Jones had maintained that the league office had become bloated, its top executives overpaid. His feelings were hurt when Blank chose five owners not named Jerry Jones to serve on an expanded version of the compensation committee last year.

At the time, Jones had otherwise been feeling rather pleased about his elevated place in the football universe. In August, he was inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, an honor Jones had coveted. He celebrated with a blowout party at Glenmoor Country Club in Canton, under a huge white tent, fit for a circus. Cowboys cheerleaders, dressed in gold, flanked the entrance to welcome the arrivals. Justin Timberlake performed and declared from the stage that “the greatest owner in the history of sports is being honored tonight.” Cocktail napkins were printed with inscrutable “Jerryisms,” memorable lines uttered by Jones over the years. (“You don’t have to spend a lot of time going over and kind of circumcising the mosquito,” he once proclaimed in an apparent critique of overthinking.)

Goodell was among the guests, and he greeted Jones with a hug. He did not happen to mention a piece of looming business the commissioner knew would put a damper on Jones’s bar mitzvah weekend. A few days later, the N.F.L. would announce it would be suspending Ezekiel Elliott, the Cowboys’ star running back, for the first six games of the 2017 season following accusations of assault from a former girlfriend. (Elliott was never charged.)

Jones was not happy with this verdict, to say the least. When the commissioner called with the news, Jones promised, in so many words, to make Goodell’s life a living hell. Coming from a protégé of Al Davis, the infamously oppositional and litigious Oakland Raiders owner, this was not an empty threat.

Jones never raised strong objections to the particulars of Goodell’s new contract until the Elliott decision came down, three members of the compensation committee told me. But after the decision, Jones swiftly set about trying to undermine Goodell’s deal. He got in Blank’s ear so frequently about the contract that Blank eventually gave Jones an adjunct role on the compensation committee — but it was a nonvoting position, with limited influence.

So Jones set about establishing himself as an opposition government to Goodell. He told at least two owners that he represented a silent majority inside the membership, giving voice to a building frustration among owners over the commissioner’s leadership. Jones tried to rally support to not only scuttle Goodell’s new contract but also, as some owners interpreted it, topple him altogether. He hired the powerhouse litigator David Boies, and in a conference call with members of the committee, Jones vowed to sue them all if they went forward with Goodell’s new deal.

Jones also became more and more direct in his disapproval of how the N.F.L. was handling the protests. He tore into the Clinton alum Joe Lockhart, whom he believed had been too aggressive in his response to Trump’s attacks on the league — and disrespectful to the president himself. “Everyone should know, including the president, this is what real locker-room talk is,” Lockhart said in a September conference call with reporters. It was a clear shot at Trump’s attempt to explain away a leaked “Access Hollywood” video, in which he infamously described grabbing women by their genitals without their consent, as “locker room talk” during the 2016 campaign.

A week and a half after Trump’s Alabama speech stirred players to protest en masse, Jones announced that any Cowboys player who did not stand during the national anthem would not take the field. “If there’s anything that is disrespectful to the flag, then we will not play,” Jones said. This was widely deemed unhelpful by many at the league office and fellow owners struggling to quell the issue, and Goodell, too. “I think Roger’s feeling on it was that any ultimatum would only prompt a larger protest if you attempt to enforce it,” the Giants’ John Mara told me. Some owners, like Jones and Washington’s Snyder, may have believed Goodell should have “put the hammer down,” Mara said. “But I think most of us believed that would cause more problems than it would have solved.”

Not surprisingly, Jones’s threat to would-be kneelers also caught the attention of Trump, who promptly tweeted his praise for the Cowboys owner: “A big salute to Jerry Jones, owner of the Dallas Cowboys, who will BENCH players who disrespect our Flag. ‘Stand for Anthem or sit for game!’” This was a week and a half after Trump advertised that he had spoken to Jones (“Jerry is a winner who knows how to get things done”). If there’s one thing Trump understands, it’s how to manipulate needy billionaires. In addition to being probably the two most powerful, successful and visible owners in the league, Jones and Kraft share a basic insecurity, and also something of a rivalry. They compete for alpha-dog status within the membership, for Super Bowl rings (Kraft has five, Jones three) and Hall of Fame gold jackets (Jones 1, Kraft 0). Both men also prize the limelight and the company of celebrity friends. Both go way back with Trump, and it could not have been lost on Jones that Trump so conspicuously cozied up to Kraft during the presidential campaign — and even more so after Trump won the presidency and Kraft’s Patriots won their fifth Super Bowl last February. Within a few days of the game, Kraft joined Trump and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan for a private dinner at Mar-a-Lago.

Some of Jones’s fellow owners, meanwhile, had begun describing Jones as the N.F.L.’s own version of Trump: a big-talking, attention-seeking billionaire showman who was easily dismissed as a carnival barker. When I asked Jones about this comparison last spring, he was clearly thrilled. Trump’s ascent, he said, “is one of the great stories in America. And let me tell you this,” he went on: “The president ain’t no joke. He’s got as good a chance to be right as any of them.”

The owners’ final scheduled meeting of the season, in early December at a Four Seasons outside Dallas, looked for a while as if it would be a Texas showdown. As it turned out, all the major issues with Goodell’s contract were resolved, and the contract was actually signed, before anyone got to Texas. Jones did deliver a stemwinder of a speech in an owners-only session, complaining that the ranchers should have more say in how the league was run. But his message appeared lost on most of the room. “Jerry, you just spoke for about 40 minutes, and I have no idea what you’re talking about,” Kraft said after Jones finished.

It was possible, even likely, that Jones could have built a formidable coalition of owners against Goodell before the season — several of them had grown frustrated with aspects of his leadership — and could have leaned on him harder to be more combative with players over their protests. But by December, most of the membership had grown weary of Jones’s antics: his threat to sue if he did not get his way; his perceived grandstanding over the anthem protests; his self-appointment, during the contentious owners’ meeting in October, as the league’s “senior owner.”

Everyone pretty much agreed that it was time to end this chapter and move on to the final weeks of the season. In a hallway interview, Blank played down differences with “my good friend Jerry.” The Colts’ owner, Jim Irsay, praised Jones as “a Texas gentleman.” In a brief news conference afterward, Goodell was asked if he took Jones’s rebellion personally. “Do I look like I take it personally?” Goodell replied. No one quite knew how to answer that. “Jerry, do I look like I take it personally?” Goodell said, pointing to Jones, who was standing behind him and didn’t seem to know how to answer that either. Either way, $200 million can buy a lot of therapy.

When I visited Goodell in his office a month later, his demeanor betrayed a mix of relief, fatigue and a perhaps surprising measure of self-satisfaction. After all, so much vulnerability in the league had been revealed this season. When I suggested as much, Goodell assumed a seen-it-all-before jadedness. “Remember, I came into the league in 1982,” Goodell told me. “We were facing litigation about the Raiders move,” from Oakland to Los Angeles. “We were on strike for nine weeks. There was a competing league. We had a lot of issues going on.”

By comparison, he said, 2017 had merely been a year of “transition.” Discussing his dealings with the N.F.L. Players Coalition, he enthused about the “unprecedented dialogue” between players and owners. “One of the players said, ‘We’re sitting here not in a locker room, not on a field,’” Goodell told me. “‘We were sitting in a board room and dealing with each other as partners.’ That understanding and listening was remarkable, and really a powerful thing for us as a league.”

It’s easy to be cynical about this — to dismiss the league’s financial commitment to community and social-justice initiatives just as a way to placate the agitators. A group of players, led by San Francisco’s Eric Reid — one of Kaepernick’s original allies in the anthem protests — recently left the coalition, believing the commitment was just that. Kaepernick remains unemployed. Other reports have trickled out of lower-profile players who demonstrated feeling their job prospects were diminished. There is no question that future protesters in the N.F.L. protest at their career peril. What happens when, say, an Eric Reid, a mainstay at safety for the 49ers for the last five seasons, becomes a free agent this winter? “How do we make sure this doesn’t happen to anyone else?” Okung, who also left the coalition, asked me, referring to Kaepernick’s situation. “Reparations need to be made in some manner.” Still, many players and owners I spoke to seemed to give Goodell the benefit of the doubt. “I think he handled things as well as you could expect in this situation,” Mara told me.

But while Goodell and the N.F.L. may have survived 2017, the commissioner and his league seem to be at the mercy of very uncertain and uncontrollable events in the future. The conflicts of 1982 that Goodell evoked might have been more dramatic and certainly “distracting” — that year’s regular season was shrunk to nine games on account of a players’ strike. But they were also more easily resolved. The dilemmas of 2017 were more profound: There was no obvious common ground between Jerry Jones’s vision of the football field as a “respite” and Kaepernick’s vision of it as a platform. The players weren’t kneeling to gain leverage or extract donations, or anything else Goodell or anyone in the league could give them. They were trying to make themselves heard. “I talked to a lot of players who were saying, ‘Man, I don’t need to be quieter, I need to be louder,’” the Bengals’ Eric Winston, the union president, told me. “That to me was the key takeaway from this season.” And what happens if an owner like Jones decides to take matters into his own hands and “fire” players if their protests continue?

“Our focus is on what we do,” Goodell said, punting, when I asked him to speculate. “And always trying to figure out the best way to get ahead of issues and focusing on what we can control.” I pushed further: What happens if next season comes around and a handful of players are still kneeling and protesting? What if Trump tries to rekindle the issue, as you figure he’d love to do, just in time for the 2018 midterm elections — or, for that matter, fires off a tweet calling on viewers to turn off the Super Bowl in the event that any players kneel, prompting the players to do exactly that?

“You’re dealing with hypotheticals,” Goodell said. “You can come up with five scenarios of what could happen.”

Football is always generating new scenarios. That’s part of what makes it so great and so fascinating. But not all scenarios stay between the sidelines — or stay hypothetical.

When I was first asked to cover the National Football League in 2013, I paused. As a longtime business writer, not a career sportswriter, I was not terribly excited about the prospect of spending my weekends in press boxes and locker rooms. I have followed the N.F.L. since I was a child, but I hadn’t aspired to cover it week in and week out. No, no, I was told. We want you to cover the league as a business and one of the powerful institutions, warts and all, in our country. That’s when I signed up.

I soon learned that practically everything the N.F.L. does is scrutinized — the commissioner, the owners, the players, the sponsors, the networks and seemingly every play are fair game. Football is, after all, the country’s most popular sport and, at $14 billion, the N.F.L. is easily the largest league.

Given the scale, it seems that every year, no matter how much planning I do for features, an even bigger breaking news story takes over. In 2013, a scandal erupted in Miami, where lineman Jonathan Martin accused his teammates of bullying. The following year, a video of running back Ray Rice knocking out his fiancée ignited a season-long controversy over the league’s handling of domestic violence cases. In 2015, there was Deflategate, about the air pressure in footballs during a playoff game. I’ve also spent the last six years writing about football and head trauma, and specifically chronic traumatic encephalopathy, the degenerative brain disease linked to head hits.

The key is to remember that I do not write for a sports publication, but the sports section of a much larger publication. People who couldn’t tell a quarterback from a halfback routinely bend my ear on something the commissioner said or a player did. There are, of course, many sports fans reading The New York Times, but many of them also seem to be interested in the intersection of sports and our society.

Now the national anthem is front and center thanks to the president, who criticized players for not standing for “The Star-Spangled Banner” and implored the owners to fire those who protest. Like many N.F.L. reporters, I wrote about the protests last season, when Colin Kaepernick, then a 49ers quarterback, was the first player to refuse to stand during the anthem, to call attention to police brutality against African-Americans. I wrote about the issue again this year, as have my colleagues John Branch and Michael Powell.

Last Friday night, when I saw that the president had weighed in on the issue, I knew it was going to be a long weekend. When I began writing early on Saturday morning, I thought the story would focus on the N.F.L. But the president soon went after the Golden State Warriors of the National Basketball Association.

Then LeBron James told his nearly 40 million Twitter followers that the president was a “bum.” The players’ unions issued statements, the N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell followed, and then a few team owners came next. All the while, dozens of N.F.L. players went on social media to criticize the president.

My editor, Randy Archibold, and I spent the day bouncing the story back and forth. Julie Hirschfeld Davis, who covers the White House, contributed the political angle. Scott Cacciola, our N.B.A. writer, pitched in from Oakland, Calif., where he was with the Warriors.

When I looked up, it was dark. When we finished later that evening, my editor’s message was clear: Thanks for helping, but we’re going to need to do this again on Sunday when the players line up (or don’t) for the national anthem.

Being an N.F.L. Sunday, more editors and reporters were working, which helped tremendously. But taking in all that was happening around the country and even in London, where players protested before the Jaguars-Ravens game, was a bit like trying to sip water from a fire hose. In a way, the story has mirrored my experience on the beat: The story of the N.F.L. is now more than just a story about a sports league; it’s a torrent of news that rarely seems to die down.

We finished with time to spare, although the sun had once again set. My editor did not need to tell me I’d be busy on Monday as well. It was understood.

Tom Brady was leading a tour through a set of fat binders that he keeps in his den, with each one devoted to one of the 18 seasons he has played in the N.F.L. This one, marked “2016,” began with a particular memento.

“I still keep this,” Brady, the New England Patriots quarterback, said, holding a document up to the camera. “It’s my suspension letter.”

That would be the missive he received from 345 Park Avenue informing him he would be sidelined for the first four games of the 2016 season for his role in the still-hard-to-believe football air-pressure “scandal” known as Deflategate. As the camera focused on Brady, his face became stuck in a smile that could be characterized as something between goofy and satisfied (and with the whiff of a smirk).

“Thank you,” Brady said, to whom it was not clear exactly. He turned the page, and next thing you know he was winning another ring.

The scene transpires early in the first installment of a new documentary series, “Tom vs. Time,” which will be posted later this month via Facebook’s mobile video platform, Facebook Watch. The series follows Brady not just as he has pursued his sixth Super Bowl championship in 2017, but also — as the title indicates — as he conducts his ongoing subversion campaign against the actuarial tables of quarterback longevity.

Filmmaker Gotham Chopra was granted sweeping access to Brady in an array of intimate settings that the inscrutable signal-caller would normally be loath to allow. There is extensive footage of Brady at his Brookline, Mass., home, with his children, with his wife, Gisele Bündchen, on family retreats to Costa Rica, on a bro-trip to Montana (with teammates Julian Edelman and Danny Amendola), on a summer tour of China with his son Jack, and in the car during Brady’s commute to and from work in Foxborough, Mass.

The sequence of the Brady children singing along to Vance Joy’s “Riptide” while dad drives home from the stadium after a November win over Miami is, to use the artistic term, rather precious.

One venue where Brady is barely seen: Gillette Stadium, or pretty much anywhere in the Patriots’ facilities. For a player who has been the epitome of the Patriots team-first philosophy, Brady would seem an unlikely candidate to open such a close-up lens upon his off-field self, especially during the season — and especially for a project set to drop during the playoffs. A player not placing undue attention upon himself would constitute a first principle of Coach Bill Belichick’s colorless “Do Your Job” collectivism. That is one of the many remarkable aspects of “Tom vs. Time.”

It is unclear if Brady has even told his coach about the project. The Patriots spokesman Stacey James said the team was nominally aware that a Brady documentary was in the works, and tried to be helpful in providing credentials on the few occasions Chopra sought access to home games. Beyond that, the answer of how much Brady’s bosses were informed about “Tom vs. Time” remains shrouded in some Patriot-esque mystery.

This takes on some added resonance in light of an ESPN report last week describing deep tensions between Brady and Belichick, the twin pillars of the N.F.L.’s 21st Century dynasty. No doubt “Tom vs. Time” could provide more grist for the distraction mill that N.F.L. teams avoid so strenuously, nowhere more so than Bunker Bill, this famously locked-down football enclave between Boston and Providence.

In addition, Belichick is almost completely absent in the series. His offensive coordinator, Josh McDaniels, rather, is portrayed as Brady’s ever-present coaching foil, making cameos via speakerphone (or video chat) as Brady pores through game film and brainstorms ideas for new plays for upcoming games.

Chopra, son of the prolific New Age author Deepak Chopra, grew up a Patriots fan in Lincoln, Mass. He spent several years working as a television journalist around the world before settling in Los Angeles, where he met Brady though mutual friends nearly a decade ago.

Chopra had become interested in exploring the spiritual side of sports and competition, the deep connections drawn and emotions elicited around the games we play and watch. He had spoken from time to time with Brady about this, and for years had been trying to get him interested in some kind of film treatment around his obsessive relationship to football.

After the odyssey of last season — with Brady’s Deflategate suspension, his mother’s battle with cancer and the Patriots’ surreal comeback win in the Super Bowl — Brady finally agreed to participate in a film about his off-season training regimen.

“We thought it would be fun to record what an off-season of training looks like for a 40-year-old athlete,” said Brady, reached by email Monday night.

The off-season ended, but Chopra and his camera stuck around into the season. “Tom is not a sentimental guy, necessarily,” Chopra said. “But I do think, as we talked, he was sort of discovering parts of himself. It’s like therapy. It’s the process of saying it and giving voice to it.”

Putting aside any significance the series might hold in the broader Patriots Kremlinology, “Tom vs. Time” is pure candy for football geeks, celebrity lifestyle voyeurs and pretty much any N.F.L. enthusiast curious about one of sports’ more enigmatic superstars. In the fifth installment (“The Spiritual Game”), Brady ruminates on the karmic satisfactions he derives through sports.

“I do want to know the whys in life,” Brady said. “I do want to know why we’re here, where we’re going; trying to find that deeper purpose. To live it, through sports in a very authentic way, makes so much sense to me.”

Later in the fifth episode, Brady and Bündchen sit for a joint interview in which Bündchen, a Brazilian model, describes what it’s like to have to share her husband with his “first love,” football. “It really is his main love,” Bündchen says, going further. “Frankly it’s true.” She mentions that when she and Brady first met, he said he only wanted to play 10 years and would have been happy to win one more Super Bowl. But of course, love dies hard.

“It’s effortless because it’s so synonymous with my being,” Brady says of football. “In front of 70,000 people, I can be who I am. If I want to scream at somebody I can scream at somebody. I can be who I am in a very authentic way.”

As Brady says this, it’s impossible not to extend the thought a beat further — and then he does so himself: “That is hard for me when I walk off the field.”

One of the more fascinating scenes involves Brady’s staring like a zombie at a computer screen, intense and serene. It is as if he is linked to the game film he is watching.

“I could literally watch football all day,” Brady says. “I could go four or five hours without getting up from this chair.” He begins watching plays from what might be the most difficult loss of his career, the Giants’ victory over the Patriots in the Super Bowl in 2008, New England’s only loss that season.

“You’re becoming a failure in front of everybody else,” Brady says, using an odd second-person construction while reliving the dormant nightmare in real time. “It’s a talent show you did when you were a kid. And you’re a failure.”

Given some of the events of this season — both around the league and with the Patriots — the first four and a half installments that were available for viewing by The New York Times contained some big elephants that go unmentioned to this point.

There is no discussion, for instance, of the player protests around the national anthem that dominated much of the early season. (President Trump, who ignited much of the discord around the protests, took every opportunity during the 2016 campaign to mention his close friendship with Brady.) Nor is there any mention of the midseason trade that sent Brady’s backup and possible heir apparent Jimmy Garoppolo to the 49ers; or, for that matter, of Brady’s polarizing “body coach,” business partner and best friend, Alex Guerrero, who was reportedly told by Belichick that he was no longer permitted to work at the stadium.

(There is no discussion of this friction surrounding Guerrero, though he appears several times in the film, mostly as we watch him put Brady through the so-called “pliability” treatments that the two men developed as the cornerstone of their sports training and lifestyle business, “TB12”.)

Chopra said he most likely would cover some of that material in the final installments, though much of it depends on the Patriots’ playoff trajectory. “There’s still some ground to cover and a lot of the story left to unfold,” he said.

Facebook said the release date for the series is uncertain; it depends on when the Patriots’ season ends. The team hosts Tennessee in a playoff game this weekend.

Another N.F.L. quarterback no longer alive in the playoffs steals one scene. Brady is at home being put through some massage by Guerrero when his oldest son, Jack, walks into the room. Jack tells his father about some N.F.L. fantasy or simulation game that he and a friend are engaged in.

“Who’s your quarterback,” Brady asks. His son is decisive and cold with his answer. “Cam Newton,” he says.