ANDOVER, Mass. —  On a clear Sunday in mid-March, Onaje X. O. Woodbine sat down to an elegant brunch at the Andover Inn, the hotel adjacent to the famous prep school in this northern Massachusetts town. He was eager to talk about his new book, but there was another question first: What did he think about the Yale basketball team, which had just made the N.C.A.A. tournament for the first time since 1962, even as its captain had been expelled amid accusations of sexual assault?

In 2000, as a Yale sophomore, Woodbine had been the basketball team’s leading scorer and greatest hope. But this March, he did not even know that his old team had won the Ivy League title. “I don’t follow that stuff anymore,” said Woodbine, a Yoruba shaman who teaches philosophy and religious studies at Phillips Academy, or Andover, as it is known.

Last week, Columbia University Press published “Black Gods of the Asphalt: Religion, Hip-Hop, and Street Basketball,” based on Woodbine’s doctoral dissertation at Boston University. The work draws on scholars like Pierre Bourdieu, Clifford Geertz and Henry Louis Gates Jr. to describe how street basketball functions as an outlet for mourning and healing for urban youths. But while the book speaks of basketball with love and reverence, it came about only because Woodbine, who is black, once quit basketball in disgust.

Woodbine, 36, grew up 30 miles from Andover, in the poor Boston neighborhood of Roxbury, where he showed basketball promise at a young age. A high school standout at Newton South High School, where he was bused as part of the region’s racial integration program, he arrived at Yale with dreams of N.B.A. stardom.

“He was a terrific player,” said James Jones, Yale’s coach, whose first year was Woodbine’s sophomore season. “He could get to 15 feet and score with best of them. He talked a lot about wanting to be Allen Iverson when he was here.”

But while Woodbine excelled on the court, he was miserable on the team. He felt that his teammates resented his tougher, more passionate style of play. The white players also belonged to a fraternity that none of the black players had joined. Woodbine said he was also disturbed by “a locker-room culture that encouraged misogyny, reveling in the sexual conquest and denigration of women,” as he wrote in a recent essay for The Chronicle of Higher Education.

Above all, Woodbine said, he felt valued only for his basketball skills. Jones, who is also black, “didn’t build any relationship with me whatsoever throughout the entire year,” Woodbine said. “None of the coaches did. And my teammates were the same way. And that’s why it was easy to leave.”

When Woodbine told Jones that he was leaving the team, the coach was “in tears,” Woodbine said. Woodbine said a white assistant coach had told him, in an email, that his leaving the team could negatively affect the admission chances of future minority recruits.

Still, Woodbine carried through with his promise to leave, and he wrote an opinion column for The Yale Daily News about his decision, saying he was leaving sports to focus on the life of the mind. His father, who did not raise him but with whom he had reconnected when he was 15, is a Buddhist tai chi instructor and an acupuncturist, and in long conversations he had given his son an interest in spirituality.

“When I look two years down the road,” Woodbine wrote, “do I want to say I played basketball for Yale but did not get to meet with my teachers, did not get to read all of my class materials?” He said he felt called to “study philosophy and religion, to expose the contradictions that people of African descent face in America every day, to give my life to humanity.”

The column was reprinted by the Yale Alumni Magazine, where it was read by the wife of Robert Neville, then the dean of Boston University’s School of Theology. She showed it to her husband, who was so impressed that he drove to Yale to ask Woodbine to apply to Boston University for graduate school. He did.

In 2001, Woodbine went to Africa for the first time, to Ghana; in 2004, he traveled to Nigeria. The Nigerian trip “changed my life,” he said. “I sat on the ground with some shamans, and they read me like a book, and they debated about me, and my life, and my philosophy.”

In Nigeria, he began studying to be initiated as a Yoruba shaman, a process he completed in 2012. On his second trip to Nigeria in 2005, he had met his wife, Folasade, whom he married the next year. They are expecting their second child in October.

Back at graduate school at Boston University, he came full circle with his dissertation, back to basketball, back to the courts that had shaped him, now a short trip from campus back to his old neighborhood. It occurred to him, as he read deeply in theories of religion, that there was something profoundly religious about what he and his friends had experienced playing basketball. The courts were sacred spaces, separating sacred time from profane, allowing them to enact rites of jubilation, transition or mourning.

“The overall thesis,” Woodbine said, “is that on the one hand, African-American men are pushed toward basketball by poverty, by predominantly white institutions, by racism. But on the other hand, once they get on the basketball court itself, the experience of playing becomes a mode of resistance to their dehumanization. And this happens on the level of the religious consciousness.”

In “Black Gods of the Asphalt,” Woodbine pays particular attention to urban street ball tournaments, which he attended regularly from 2010 to 2014, doing field research. The tournaments are often named for players who have been killed, and thus function like Yoruba rituals.

“In Yoruba tradition,” Woodbine said, “there are perennial human problems — death, loss, disease — and there are things that are good in life: vitality, energy, relationships, children. I saw these tournaments were expressing the same idea. They were about death, loss, fighting, but the goal was to transform those things: death to vitality, a loss to grieve, to reconnect with that individual.”

A play based on “Black Gods of the Asphalt,” written by Woodbine, will be performed at Andover in May, and at the Oprah Winfrey Leadership Academy for Girls in South Africa in June.

In the meantime, he keeps busy teaching at Andover, where he coaches the girls’ junior varsity basketball team.

Woodbine still plays pickup games with some old friends. And when he finds time to think, he thinks back to how important the game was to him as a youth in Roxbury.

“There were a few times when people came onto the court and somebody had just been shot, and they would play basketball as if they were playing for that person,” Woodbine recalled. “And they couldn’t miss. Every shot would go in. At the end of the game, they would just fall out crying. It became this other place, this place outside the violence of the ghetto. I always kept that with me.”

Jimmy Butler scored 22 points on Tuesday night, Rajon Rondo finished one rebound shy of a triple-double, and the visiting Chicago Bulls, the No. 8 seed, beat the top-seeded Boston Celtics, 111-97, to take a 2-0 lead in their first-round Eastern Conference playoff series.

Butler added 8 rebounds and 8 assists. Rondo finished with 11 points and 14 assists on a night when all five Bulls starters reached double figures.

Dwyane Wade had 22 points, including 16 in the second half, and Robin Lopez added 18 points and 8 rebounds for Chicago.

The Bulls host Game 3 of the best-of-seven series on Friday.

After a better start by the Celtics, the Bulls again took control by dominating the offensive glass. Chicago held a 43-38 edge in rebounding.

Isaiah Thomas scored 20 points for Boston.

The Celtics got to within 91-82 early in the fourth quarter before the Bulls went on a 14-4 run to push their lead to 19.

Paul Zipser added 16 points off the bench for Chicago.

RAPTORS 106, BUCKS 100 Kyle Lowry scored 22 points, including the clinching basket with less than 10 seconds to play, and third-seeded Toronto beat visiting Milwaukee, the No. 6 seed, evening their first-round playoff series in the East, 1-1.

DeMar DeRozan had 23 points, Serge Ibaka added 13 of his 16 in the second half, and Jonas Valanciunas had 10 points and 10 rebounds for the Raptors, who improved to 5-1 when playing Game 2 of a playoff series on their home court.

Game 3 is Thursday night in Milwaukee.

Giannis Antetokounmpo had 24 points and 15 rebounds for the Bucks.

DURANT A QUESTION MARK Golden State’s Kevin Durant missed practice because of a strained left calf and is questionable for Wednesday’s Game 2 against Portland, which again will be without center Jusuf Nurkic. The Warriors, who won Game 1 on Sunday, also listed Shaun Livingston as questionable with a sprained right index finger and bruised hand, and Matt Barnes with a sprained right ankle and foot.  (AP)

ANNOUNCER ALBERT RETIRING The Phoenix Suns’ television play-by-play announcer, Steve Albert, is retiring, ending a 45-year career in sports broadcasting.

Albert was with the Suns for the past five seasons.

Before that, he spent 13 years as the voice of the Nets, five seasons as the TV play-by-play announcer for the Golden State Warriors and one season with the New Orleans Hornets.

He also did play-by-play work for the Mets, the Jets, the Islanders and the Devils.  (AP)

Is this finally the year for Northwestern basketball?

The Wildcats have celebrated a Rose Bowl win and seven women’s lacrosse national titles, but they have never managed to get into the men’s N.C.A.A. basketball tournament.

This week, the team cracked the top 25 in the Associated Press poll for the first time in seven seasons. And going into a showdown with Purdue on Wednesday night, they were 18-4 over all and 7-2 in the Big Ten.

But an 80-59 shellacking in West Lafayette, Ind., raised fears that yet again Northwestern would fail to escape a sorry group.

Northwestern joins William & Mary, Army, St. Francis of Brooklyn and the Citadel as the only original members of Division I that have never played in the tournament.

Northwestern (now 18-5, 7-3) stood tied for third in the Big Ten on Thursday morning. That still bodes well, as over the last 10 seasons, the conference has averaged 6.2 teams in the tournament.

Bracketologists at ESPN and CBS Sports project Northwestern to make the tournament comfortably as a seventh seed, which would give the Wildcats some wiggle room if they were to have a rough patch.

Computer rankings also have them in tournament territory. On Thursday morning, they were No. 30 in Sagarin, No. 30 in Pomeroy, No. 26 in Massey and No. 34 in the N.C.A.A.’s RPI rating. That should be enough to get them into the tournament, if the season ended today.

Of course, it doesn’t. Northwestern still must face ranked Big Ten rivals like Wisconsin and Maryland, and has a rematch with Purdue. A few missteps and the bubble might loom.

Northwestern has come close to a berth in the past. It has won 20 games three times: In 2009-10 and 2010-11 it played in the National Invitation Tournament, but last season the Wildcats (20-12) did not get an invitation to the N.I.T. and declined to participate in other postseason tournaments.

Making the tournament with a run through the Big Ten tournament is historically unlikely: Northwestern has never made even the semifinal in the event, which dates to 1998.

The team’s best year was probably 1931, when it was 16-1. The Helms Athletic Foundation retroactively named the squad the national champion. Unfortunately, the N.C.A.A. tournament did not start until 1939.

While Northwestern’s hopes are high, things look bleak for the other four teams that have never made the tournament. While William & Mary, which is tied for third in the Colonial, could theoretically get hot in its conference tournament, Army, St. Francis and the Citadel are all last or tied for last in their conferences.

Northwestern has eight games and the conference tournament to go before Selection Sunday. The wait could once again be breathless.

OAKLAND, Calif. — The day after Klay Thompson accused him of being too sensitive and Marreese Speights posted an emoji of a baby bottle on social media, LeBron James showed up at Oracle Arena and was showered with boos as soon as his face appeared on the massive video screens. The game was about a half-hour from even starting.

James, one of the most famous athletes in the world, widely celebrated for his feats with the Cleveland Cavaliers, arrived for Game 5 of the N.B.A. finals on Monday and settled in for an evening as the subject of the Bay Area’s ire. Fans screamed at him, calling him a whiner and a player past his prime, just hours from another postseason exit.

Then they watched James reach into his bag of basketball greatness to steer the Cavaliers away from the edge of a cliff.

The Golden State Warriors had goaded James — mocked him, even — before he delivered for the Cavaliers in their 112-97 victory, which underscored that it was probably a huge mistake to pick on him in the first place.

There was something about the energy in the building that fueled James, whose Cavaliers narrowed the Warriors’ lead in the best-of-seven series to three games to two, with Game 6 scheduled for Thursday in Cleveland. In fact, James sounded as if he had relished the experience. He turned almost wistful, talking about life after basketball, whenever that time comes.

“No matter how loud you turn the stereo system up in your house, you’ll never be able to get it back,” James said. “You just don’t take these moments for granted.”

Amid the din, James collected 41 points, 16 rebounds and 7 assists, becoming the fourth player in N.B.A. history to finish with at least 40 points, 15 rebounds and 5 assists in a finals game, according to Elias Sports Bureau. James had loads of help from Kyrie Irving, who had his own transcendent game with 41 points on 17-of-24 shooting.

“It’s probably one of the greatest performances I’ve ever seen live,” James said of Irving. “Just calm. Just calm for 48 minutes.”

As the building seethed around them, James and Irving operated with calculated cool, feasting on the absence of the Warriors’ Draymond Green, who served his one-game suspension by watching the game on television from a luxury suite at the baseball stadium next door, where the Oakland Athletics were playing. (The A’s won.)

It was James, of course, who had played a role in provoking Green in Game 4 by stepping over him after a tussle in the fourth quarter. Green retaliated by swiping at James’s groin, and the league, which had seen enough of that from Green over the postseason, assessed him with a flagrant-1 foul on Sunday, triggering an automatic suspension.

Ahead of Game 5, some of the Warriors suggested that the Cavaliers (and James specifically) had lobbied the league to punish Green. James laughed it all off, saying he intended to take “the high road.” Once the game began, that road — unimpeded by Green’s steamer-trunk frame — led straight to the basket. The Cavaliers shot 53 percent from the field.

“Well, he’s their best defender,” Cavaliers Coach Tyronn Lue said of Green. “I’ve said it all along that he’s the best guy in the N.B.A. as far as reading when to help, triple switches and kicking guys out of mismatches, knowing when to go and when not to go. He’s an underrated shot blocker, and he can guard one through five. So that definitely hurt their defense.”

It was a mouthful, and give credit to Lue for being candid: The Cavaliers benefited from Green’s landing in baseball purgatory, where a simple trip to use the restroom drew huge crowds.

The good news for the Warriors is that Green will return for Game 6, and they have been in such a situation before. Last year, they clinched their first championship in 40 years by winning Game 6 at Quicken Loans Arena, soaking the visiting locker room with champagne. They delighted in the familiar aroma when they returned there for the first time this season.

“I like our position a lot better than theirs,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said Monday night.

But the Cavaliers must feel confident, too, after staving off elimination on the Warriors’ home court. Forget that no team has ever come back from a 3-1 deficit in the finals. James likes being first, and helping the Cavaliers win three straight games to claim the first championship in franchise history would be his greatest stunt in an all-world career.

Last season, James had to wrestle the Warriors without the aid of Irving, who injured his left knee in the first game of the series. Now, both are playing well and heading home emboldened, apparently undaunted by the task ahead of them.

Irving, whose partnership with James has been the source of so much scrutiny over the past two seasons, was asked how they had been able to strike the right balance.

“When we stopped caring about what everyone else said,” Irving said. “Honestly, what goes on in our locker room — and I’ve said it multiple times — as long as we’re taking care of what’s going on in our locker room, internally, we can power through anything.”

On Monday, the Cavaliers powered through the noise and their critics and a depleted opponent. A new challenge awaits, just the way they like it.