My friend and I were at a Nets game the other night, being ushered between exclusive locations by our personal concierge, when suddenly we strayed into an area full of normal fans waiting in line to buy their own food.

It was weird, the way it would be weird if you were flying first class and for some inexplicable reason found yourself in coach. You would not be proud of your ungracious attitude toward the passengers crammed into standard-issue seats in an un-luxurious cabin with no free Champagne, but neither would you want to change seats with anyone.

Nothing at Barclays Center shouts “us” and “them” as emphatically as the Brooklyn Sports & Entertainment Experience, the super-deluxe fan package my friend and I were experiencing that conjures a parallel universe of individually tailored privilege.

Few people experience the Experience. For one thing, it is so intricate — requiring so much planning, such precise choreography, so many people to attend to your every need — that the arena can’t reasonably be expected to pull together more than a couple of Experiences at a time.

Also, it costs $6,189.

“People always want access to things that you normally can’t buy,” said Kate Girotti, vice president of global marketing for Brooklyn Sports and Entertainment, which owns Barclays Center, the Nassau Coliseum and the Nets. “Whether it’s parking in the building with the players, a tour of the locker room or being on the court with your favorite players.” (Packages are also offered for Islanders games and for concerts; not-as-premium experiences are also available, for as low as $700.)

We live at a time when consumers with gold cards get worse treatment than those with Super Platinum Premium Plus Cards, in which people who have all the possessions they want crave intangible luxury — novelty, exclusivity, enhanced reality and freedom from petty logistical annoyances. The Brooklyn Experience is for those sorts of people. For one night, it was also for my sort of person.

(I didn’t pay for it. Seeking publicity for the program and also possibly for the Nets, who are having a bad season and suffering from low attendance, Brooklyn Sports and Entertainment offered The New York Times a look at it.)

Here is what happened:

Who needs public transportation when there is Gregg Casile, the Nets driver, and his spacious S.U.V., stocked with water and candy in case anyone gets hungry in the 20-minute journey from my house?

We clamber into the car — me, my friend Craig and a Times photographer, Hilary Swift — and glide down Atlantic Avenue. It turns out that there are three Barclays Center entrances: the democratic one, for fans with normal tickets; the Calvin Klein V.I.P. one, for fans with better-than-normal tickets; and the supersecret one around the back, for players, executives, talent, higher-class V.I.P.s and us.

Gregg drives us directly into the building and onto an elevator, which by some magical means descends to a lower floor without seeming to move at all. The Nets point guard Yogi Ferrell is also riding the elevator, though he is not in his car. We are too classy to ask for his autograph.

After Gregg drops us off in the players’ parking lot, we are met by a small but enthusiastic welcoming committee that includes two Brooklynettes dancers. This is not as exciting to me as it might be to some people, but we get our photographs taken with their arms around us. Girotti, who is serving as our concierge for the evening, leads us deep into the Barclays Center underbelly.

The hallway is decorated with photographs of past arena performances — Leonard Cohen, Arcade Fire, Rush, you name it. It smells different down there, an aroma something like men’s cologne, and we learn that a special scent is pumped into the V.I.P. sections of the arena via the air ducts.

We pass the Nets locker room but do not see any players, in part because of the guard/bouncer positioned at the door. There are several dressing rooms reserved for visiting important people. One is for the referee; another is for the lady singing the national anthem; a third is for Craig and me. It has our names printed outside, its own bathroom, its own television, and a sofa in case we need to lie down at some point.

Not yet.

Filing into the room where the coaches traditionally meet the news media, we watch Kenny Atkinson, the Nets’ careworn head coach, explain to the assembled reporters how his team expects to defeat the visiting Boston Celtics, who are having a far superior season. It is a fair bet to say that this is not his favorite part of the day.

“Obviously, we focused on our defense and tried to make some improvements,” Atkinson says of the Nets’ pregame preparations, “without forgetting our offense and trying to make some improvements there, too.”

I’ve been to lots of news conferences — and often you learn even less than we learn at this one — but it’s fun to watch from the perspective of a privileged outsider getting special access to behind-the-scenes events. Also, how great is it to attend a news conference but not have to cover it?

We watched top-level athletes mixing it up inches from our seats in their pregame warm-up. Then, it’s time to eat at our reserved table in a special restaurant not open to members of the public. It is called, and we see a theme developing here, the Calvin Klein Courtside Club. One of its features is glass walls that allow you to watch the players walk onto the court for the game.

Because it’s a buffet, we eat too much, from choices that include steak, turkey, chicken, various kinds of pasta, various kinds of sushi, mini-cheeseburgers, Nathan’s hot dogs, a sundae station and a genius V.I.P.-worthy Buffalo chicken wing dish wherein the chicken is white meat, the sauce does not make you feel sick and there are no bones.

Aaron La Greca, the executive sous chef, wanders to our table — random interesting people popping up to talk to you is part of the Experience — and informs us that every game, his kitchen prepares between 200 and 250 pounds of shrimp for the hungry Barclays Center crowds. Judging by the way people are inhaling the shrimp at the buffet, that sounds entirely plausible.

Somewhere in the vast network of not-open-to-the-public back areas lies the Barclays Center practice court, where we and some other privileged people get to shoot baskets before the game begins.

I am not filled with enthusiasm about this part of the evening — it’s been some time since I’ve been on a court in an athletic capacity — but Craig grabs a ball, gets going and immediately transforms into someone else entirely.

After a few minutes, so do I. There’s something seductive and then addictive about trying to get the ball in the basket. It’s so simple and so hard, so thrilling when it works out. My enjoyment is somewhat marred by how bad I am at it, and by the arrival of some hypercompetitive preteens who, and I use this term advisedly, blow me off the court. But that is O.K. I have worked up a sweat and had a participatory sports experience and burned off all that dinner.

By now, the regular fans are taking their seats, the players are coming in, and we’re standing on the court, inches from the Nets. It is exciting. The lady – it turns out to be Kissy Simmons, who played Nala in “The Lion King” — performs the national anthem. At one point the Nets shooting guard Sean Kilpatrick indicates that he has to perform his regular pregame stretching ritual under the basket, and that it would be really helpful if we would get out of the way. This is also strangely exciting, watching him do his lunges.

We are seated right on the floor, next to the table reserved for the visiting Boston broadcast media and within sweating distance of the players. Our spot appears to be even better than the Calvin Klein V.I.P. section. The Celtics, whose shorts are winsomely decorated with a shamrock near the waistband, help themselves often to the gum, breath mints, sore-throat lozenges and chalk at the broadcasters’ table.

This sounds dumb. But from this intimate spot, I am struck by how gorgeously the athletes play, how smoothly they glide across the court, how effortless they make it all seem. It’s particularly fun to get up close to Isaiah Thomas, the freakishly talented Celtics point guard, at 5-foot-9 more than a foot shorter than some of the other guys. He is everywhere at once and is always smiling as if in some private amusement.

The Nets are down by 15 points, then they miraculously rally and by halftime are only two points behind.

We head to another fancy location, the Billboard Lounge, open to Nets or Islanders season ticket holders (annual fee: $500). It is dark and loud and has a Russian-billionaires-trawling-for-dates vibe, even though we don’t see any billionaires or women of obviously ill repute. But we are cheered when someone offers us free drinks, a perk apparently denied to people not having Experiences.

We are led high-ish up in the stands, where we find Chris Carrino, now in his 16th season as the Nets’ radio play-by-play announcer. His speaking voice is like his radio voice, smooth as honey, and he is lyrical on the subject of how much he loves his job, how thrilling it is to find the precise description for what he sees in front of him. Through headphones, we get to hear snatches of his nimble broadcast.

The Nets scrape and claw their way to within a point of the Celtics but are soon riding the downbound train to nowhere. Meanwhile, Brad Stevens, the Celtics coach, patrols the sidelines in front of us, shouting at his players. “Stay up! Stay up!” he says, and “Out, out, out!” and “In the middle!” and “Be smart with your hands!” and, my personal favorite, “Save your time and space!”

None of it makes much sense, but neither does it sound like some secret code he’s using to impart information to his team while confounding the opponents. It sounds like stuff you might say in the heat of a game, although your teammates would not be as good as these players.

In any case, it works. The Celtics win, 111-92.

■ Our faces were broadcast live on the scoreboard, with a caption identifying us by name and welcoming us to the arena as “BSE Experience V.I.P. Guests.” That was embarrassing. However, some friends sitting high up in the stands sent a text to say how impressed they were.

■ We participated in the T-shirt Toss, meaning that someone handed us T-shirts and told us to throw them into the crowd. Mine just cleared the second row. That, too, was embarrassing.

■ We exited through some kind of V.I.P. passageway, and someone went to our dressing room to retrieve our stuff so we did not have to carry anything ourselves.

■ Gregg drove us home.

The evening could not have been more eye-opening, to say the least. But as I showed myself through my front door, I had a sudden flashback to the time when Elizabeth Hurley, the famous-for-being-famous British actress, airily observed that there were two types of people in the world: celebrities and civilians. I know which type I am.

The Knicks will celebrate the 70th anniversary of their franchise this season, and one of the players to be recognized will be Willis Reed, the center on their championship teams in 1970 and 1973.

Reed spent his entire 10-year career with the Knicks and was a team captain. At 6 feet 9 inches, but solidly built, he could battle near the basket with giants like Wilt Chamberlain but also score from the perimeter with a smooth, left-handed jump shot. For his career, he averaged 18.7 points and 12.9 rebounds a game.

He was the rookie of the year in 1965, appeared in seven All-Star Games, won the league’s Most Valuable Player Award in 1970 and was the N.B.A. finals’ most valuable player both times the Knicks won the title. He was inducted into the Basketball Hall of Fame in 1982.

When he watches an N.B.A. game now, he said, his attention is not on the big men.

“The league has some great guards in all sizes and shapes,” he said.

“Of course, my favorite is Steph Curry. I like Russell Westbrook and Chris Paul, too. If you’re going to win in the league today, you need good guards that can control the game. And the 3-point shot has got to be a significant part of the team’s game.”

Reed can also see a place for his game among those talented guards.

“I could play today,” he said. “I would be the one thing most teams don’t have. I would spend my time getting offensive and defensive rebounds. And score some easy baskets under the hoop. Oh, I could play today.”

Reed, 74, was recently honored at the 31st Great Sports Legends Dinner to benefit the Miami Project to Cure Paralysis and the Buoniconti Fund.

(This interview has been condensed and edited.)

How do you spend your time now?

I love to hunt and fish. I’m outdoors every day at my place in Louisiana. I enjoy listening to the birds sing in the morning.

What player do you enjoy watching?

I absolutely love LeBron James. I sent him a little note before the end of the season. I wished him good luck because I thought the Cavaliers had a good shot to win it all after they added Kevin Love and with Kyrie Irving coming back. When they were down in the N.B.A. finals, 3-1, I said to myself, “I don’t know.” But LeBron and the team got it together.

Do you think the Knicks will make the playoffs this season?

Some experts are saying that. I don’t think the East is as good as the West, so that helps. I love the addition of Derrick Rose. If he’s healthy, we’ll have one of those really good guards you need to win the game, make good decisions and make other players on the team be better. It reminds me of when the Knicks became good when I was there. We got Clyde, Walt Frazier. He made great decisions with the basketball and got everyone involved. I think Rose is that kind of player. And I like the addition of Joakim Noah. I like his style and personality for the team.

What are your thoughts about the Knicks’ Carmelo Anthony and Kristaps Porzingis?

I don’t know what Phil Jackson would do, but if I had my choice, I think Melo needs more offensive help. I would play him as a four, a power forward, as opposed to a three, a small forward. You have to work so much harder playing threes. The best athletes in the game are threes. Tall, lanky, quick guys that can score and put it on the floor. Kristaps is an unusually talented big person with very good skills. He does things on the court, and you don’t realize he’s over seven feet tall. We never had players like that when I played.

When you coached Creighton, you faced Iowa State, where Jeff Hornacek was a star player. What’s your scouting report on him as a player, and how do you think he’ll do as the Knicks coach?

Jeff was a tough player and a very good offensive player. He was never a player who didn’t give it all. Tough. He’d hit those jump shots from the corners to beat us. We didn’t enjoy facing him. I think he’ll do well as the coach. He knows what it’s about. He’s been there. It’s about making his personnel blend. And he has a good man to work with in Phil Jackson.

Jackson was your teammate and a bench player with the Knicks. Were you surprised that he went on to be such a successful coach and is now the Knicks’ president?

As a player, he always changed the game when he went in. He was Action Jackson. Some players don’t have an effect on the game. He would always mess up the other team’s offense because he was so defensive-minded. I admit I could not stop Elvin Hayes. He had a tough jump shot. But Phil would. He would actually block his shot. Elvin hated to see Phil come in the game, but he loved seeing me. Phil was always a very intelligent person. He was also a very intelligent and knowledgeable basketball person, too. So I’m not surprised by what he has accomplished.

What do you think of the triangle offense? Did Red Holzman ever have a similar strategy?

(Laughing) The only thing that Coach Holzman was concerned about was playing defense. He told us you can run anything you want to on offense, as long as it works. And if it doesn’t work, you’re going to be really miserable because you’re going to run what I want you to run. He put a con job on us! He didn’t care who shot the ball as long as he was the open man.

I think the triangle offense is only as good as the players who run it. The triangle can’t make bad players good players.

The Knicks have their home opener on Saturday, and the team will be celebrating many of your accomplishments as part of the 70th anniversary season. What comes to mind when you walk into Madison Square Garden?

There were some great times there. When I walk in and see my number (19) hanging from the ceiling, that’s what I’m most proud of. I think to myself that all the hard work paid off.

Should N.B.A. players and other athletes not stand for the national anthem to raise awareness about racial issues affecting the country, or should they protest in other ways?

I can’t speak for anybody else, but I would stand for the national anthem. I have sympathy for everybody to do what they want to do. Do I like what I see? No. It saddens me. But I would stand. You work for an organization, you represent your team, your fans. I stand at attention. As Coach Eddie Robinson used to say at Grambling, “I am an American.” He didn’t say, “I am an Afro-American.” This is my country.

Any regrets?

Not really a regret. But I look at Melo and see him playing in the Olympics. I wished I could have made the Olympic team. I played in the Pan American Games, and that was great. But that would probably be the one miss.

Two or three times a week, for 20 years, Bart Freundlich has played basketball with a group of guys in gymnasiums around New York City, where he grew up and continues to live. Many of his fellow players would be a mystery to him outside the gym; their unifying bond is full-court five-on-five.

“We just go, we have a good time and we play the game,” Mr. Freundlich said.

A film director and screenwriter, Mr. Freundlich, 47, drew on basketball for “Wolves,” his new coming-of-age sports drama starring Michael Shannon and Carla Gugino, in theaters and on demand Friday. Some of the action takes place at the West Fourth Street Courts, known widely as the Cage, where street ball is filmed like a balletic battle.

Mr. Freundlich recently sat down at a Manhattan cafe to talk about his love of basketball, his joy in seeing his son take up the game, and the pleasures and pains associated with sports as you get older.

You have two children with your wife, Julianne Moore. With family, fatherhood and career, how have you found time to play basketball?

Well, somehow it was communicated nonverbally to my wife that this was important to me — being around men and communicating through a game. But also, so much of my work is being in my head, and I get to turn my mind off. You get to physically exhaust yourself. It feels like wringing out the sponge.

What’s it like on court with your teenage son? 

My favorite thing is to play on his team because he is a special shooter, this kid, and I’m a great passer. My son plays Division I basketball for Davidson. He walked on this year as a freshman. It’s hugely gratifying for him — and for me.

Did you ever play at the Cage as a young baller? 

I would go watch as a kid. I would fantasize about playing. It was very intimidating. Less because of the basketball than the talking. You didn’t play there and not talk trash. And that was not my game.

Give me your personal highlight reel.

Right after college there was a period when I could dunk it. And that gave me immediate credibility. And then there was a time earlier in my 40s where I played against this kid who was a point guard for Oklahoma. He got the competitive juices flowing in me, and I could do things that I hadn’t recognized myself doing for a long time.

Sports is humbling because older and wiser don’t usually help.

I’ve always had a really good court sense, and I’m a thinking player. But the answer is the younger player always beats you. My friend who’s my age who plays basketball is a physical therapist. He told me: “Just be careful because now you have three good jumps a night. Don’t use them up while you’re warming up.” I still think of myself as a young man. It’s always shocking when someone refers to me as, “I got the old guy,” or “I’ll pick up Pops.”

It’s a good time to be a Boston sports fan.

The Celtics accomplished on Wednesday night what virtually no one predicted and landed the No. 1 playoff seeding in the N.B.A. Eastern Conference, surprising the mighty Cleveland Cavaliers. Also on Wednesday, the Boston Bruins won their opening N.H.L. playoff game, seizing home ice advantage from the Ottawa Senators.

The New England Patriots, of course, are the Super Bowl champions, for the second time in three years, while the Boston Red Sox are favored to repeat as American League East champions and trail only the Chicago Cubs as a likely World Series winner. In soccer, it’s early, but the New England Revolution are currently in a playoff spot.

It wasn’t always this way. As recently as the 1990s, Boston hardly had a titletown reputation. The Red Sox were still waiting for a first championship since 1918. The Bruins consistently made the playoffs but consistently lost there. The Celtics won 15 games in 1996-97 and 19 in 1998-99.

Perhaps the nadir was the Patriots’ 1990 season. Behind the unlikely quarterback triumvirate of Marc Wilson, Tom Hodson and Steve Grogan, the Pats, who play down the road in Foxborough, Mass., were 1-15 and weathered a scandal over the sexual harassment of a female reporter.

But in the 21st century, it has been all Boston. The Patriots have five titles since 2000, the Red Sox three. The Celtics won it all in 2008 and the Bruins did so in 2011. Though the Revolution have not won the Major League Soccer playoffs, they have made the final five times in the century.

Boston’s run compares favorably to the best stretch by any sports city. With so many teams in the New York metropolitan area, a couple of them are almost always good. The highlight may have been 1969-70, when the Mets, the Jets and the Knicks all won. Chicago has two baseball titles (from two teams) and three hockey championships in this century, though it needs the Bulls and the Bears to improve.

The Lakers won five N.B.A. titles in the 1980s and the Dodgers two World Series. Philadelphia made the finals in all four major sports consecutively from May 1980 to January 1981, though it won only the World Series. The Pirates and the Steelers were consistently good in the 1970s.

If you look a little harder, you can find Boston teams that don’t conquer all before them. The Boston Breakers of women’s professional soccer were a league-worst 3-15-2 last season, losing some games by scores like 4-0, 7-1 and 5-1. Boston College has not made the men’s basketball tournament since 2009 and the women’s tournament since 2006.

But where it really counts, Boston is flying high. If the Celtics can use home court to fight off the Cavaliers, and the Bruins can get hot, there may be more silverware coming to the banks of the Charles.

On Tuesday night, Connecticut (38-0), led by the three-time national player of the year Breanna Stewart, won its fourth straight national championship, 82-51, by beating Syracuse in a game that was close — only until it began.

After the Huskies rolled to another crushing victory, UConn Coach Geno Auriemma’s national titles (11) and record in national title games (11-0 — and take a minute to contemplate that) now surpass those of the great U.C.L.A. men’s coach John Wooden (10, 10-0).

But when next season begins in November, the Huskies’ record, like the score at the beginning of Tuesday night’s game, will be 0-0. It is one of the oldest coaches’ clichés, but it is worth emphasizing because, this time next year, it is unlikely there will be a zero in UConn’s loss column.

Even the coach seemed to predict that.

“The rest of the players coming back are in for a rude awakening,” he said Tuesday night.

It seems unthinkable in the context of the last four years, when the Huskies have gone 151-5.

But next year’s Huskies are likelier not to win the national title than to win it. And there will almost certainly never be another dynasty in women’s basketball as dominant as the one that has just concluded — the very first, in men’s or women’s basketball (including the era when freshmen were ineligible for varsity play), to feature players who won four straight national championships.

“Notre Dame, Baylor and Texas return key pieces and all have upgraded their talent base,” the ESPN analyst Doris Burke said Wednesday. “Each of these teams will enter next season better positioned to win the national championship.”

Take a peek at the 10 all-Americans selected this season by the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association. UConn’s Stewart, Moriah Jefferson and Morgan Tuck each made the cut.

But Stewart and Jefferson are seniors, and Tuck, a redshirt junior, announced Wednesday that she will join them in the W.N.B.A. draft (where they may well comprise the top three picks).

By contrast, all-Americans likely to return include Baylor’s Nina Davis, a onetime Big 12 player of the year; the big scorers Kelsey Plum, of Washington, and Kelsey Mitchell, of Ohio State; and South Carolina’s A’ja Wilson, who is just a sophomore.

“We don’t have anybody in the program right now that’s a Stewie or a Tuck or Moriah coming back,” Auriemma said Tuesday night. “So it’s going to be really, really one of the more difficult adjustments that we’ve had.”

Perhaps more ominously, glance at the college sports equivalent of the chess opening: recruiting.

Notre Dame, Baylor, Maryland and Texas — all programs that have enjoyed recent success in UConn’s shadow — have commitments from two top-20 recruits from the high school Class of 2016. UConn has only a point guard, Crystal Dangerfield, however potent she may be.

Auriemma has not been perfect, this season notwithstanding. UConn went two seasons before this run without winning the national title, and it had a four-season drought in the mid-2000s. It was 25-8 and lost in the round of 16 in 2004-05 — an admirable showing for most programs but, when adjusted for the curve on which UConn is graded, is roughly a D+.

For Auriemma, who has been the coach since 1985, it is the dominance of the past four years that is, in his word, “unusual.”

“Even us as coaches, we looked at each other after the game and we just kind of shake our heads,” he said Tuesday.

By raising the profile of the sport, Auriemma has bred stronger rivals (much as Tennessee’s Pat Summitt, who had been 3-0 in N.C.A.A. national title games until she faced UConn in 1995, arguably helped breed Auriemma). Sports are zero-sum: Auriemma’s UConn is not a global superpower that can ally with others to strengthen his influence, nor a hip-hop legend who can guest on rising stars’ tracks to co-opt their energy. If he does not win, he loses.

In recent weeks, as some have suggested that the Huskies’ dominance has been a bane to the women’s game, wiser heads have compared UConn to Wooden’s teams at U.C.L.A., which in the 1960s and ’70s — that is, when the men’s game was at a similar stage as the current women’s game — won 10 titles in 12 years.

Wooden, known as the Wizard of Westwood, retired after the final title, in 1975, so there is no way to know how much longer his magic would have lasted. But his run was followed by great success elsewhere: at Bob Knight’s Indiana, which went undefeated the next year; down on Tobacco Road, where Atlantic Coast Conference programs appeared in six of 10 title games from 1974 through 1983; and among the nascent northeastern powers of the soon-to-be-formed Big East.

Since Wooden’s retirement, only twice has one team won two consecutive men’s titles. The past 10 championships have been won by eight different programs.

There is every reason to believe that women’s college basketball’s monarchy will similarly transition to an oligarchy, and then democratize further from there. Auriemma might win another championship or five, and he may nab the next Stewart. He may, like Wooden, decline the challenge. Or he may accept it and fail.

For now, there is something to celebrate. These Huskies were not just dominant but indomitable: where the other three tournament No. 1 seeds all fell before the Final Four — a rare occurrence in the top-heavy women’s game — the Huskies’ win streak now stands at 75. In her final three seasons, Stewart lost only one game, a feat neither Lew Alcindor (later Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) nor Bill Walton managed at U.C.L.A.

“The fact that we made history together, that’s going to create a connection that will never be broken,” Stewart said after Tuesday’s victory. She was referring to her fellow seniors, but could have been speaking for all of us.

Craig Sager, an exuberant sideline reporter for National Basketball Association television broadcasts who was as well known for his outlandishly garish outfits as for the questions he asked coaches and players, died on Thursday in Atlanta. He was 65.

The cause was leukemia, according to a spokesman for Turner Sports. After receiving the diagnosis in 2014, Mr. Sager continued to work occasionally during what became a highly public illness. He received blood transfusions to be strong enough to travel to some games, and returned to a hospital after others.

He last appeared in a game broadcast in June and canceled plans to work for NBC at the Summer Olympics in Brazil in August to continue treatment.

Mr. Sager brought deep knowledge of basketball and a fun-loving spirit to his work. He was known for working behind the scenes to find news that he could use in his on-air reports or give to announcing colleagues like Marv Albert and Reggie Miller.

“He was always hovering around the benches,” Mr. Albert said in a recent telephone interview. “And players told him things.”

But his journalism competed for attention with his psychedelic wardrobe. He strode the sideline of N.B.A. arenas in lilac, orange, banana yellow, black and lime green outfits — some in medleys of colors arrayed in stripes, plaids, swirls and other patterns that resembled Rorschach tests. He abhorred repeating any combinations.

“My clothes reflect who I am,” he wrote in “Living Out Loud: Sports, Cancer and the Things Worth Fighting For,” his autobiography, which was published in November. “I believe that life should be fun and so should your clothes.”

His ensembles set him apart from other sideline reporters, who are usually bit players on sports broadcasts, typically given no more than one or two minutes to question sweaty athletes and cranky coaches between quarters, at halftime or after games.

But Mr. Sager, with questions as well planned as his ensembles, became a favorite of players and coaches, not to mention the fans in the seats, as he walked into an arena in his sartorial splendor.

“He had a very good relationship with players, but that didn’t mean he wouldn’t ask tough questions,” Mr. Albert said. “I also thought that the outfits he wore made him underrated.”

As his illness progressed, Mr. Sager had three bone marrow transplants, two from his older son, Craig II.

On Mr. Sager’s return from a long hospital stay, his condition prompted Gregg Popovich, the San Antonio Spurs coach who is notoriously terse when responding to sideline reporters, to show rare warmth to Mr. Sager.

“This is the first time I’ve enjoyed doing this ridiculous interview we’re required to do,” Mr. Popovich said, “and that’s because you’re here and you’re back with us.” Then he added, “Now ask me a couple of inane questions.”

In June, Mr. Sager, who worked for TNT, was asked to be a sideline reporter at Game 6 of the N.B.A. finals on ABC, a rare invitation from a rival network. He scheduled the assignment — his first during a finals — between an eight-day course of chemotherapy at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston and a Father’s Day outing in Florida.

Not surprisingly, he purchased a new outfit for the game.

“I can’t bring out something I’ve already worn,” he said in an interview with The New York Times. “I want to make sure I don’t look down. I want people to say, ‘Man, he looks good.’”

After the Cleveland Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors in Game 6, Mr. Sager interviewed the Cavaliers star LeBron James. After answering several questions, Mr. James reversed roles with Mr. Sager and asked: “How in the hell did you go 30-plus years without getting a finals game? That don’t make no sense.”

Mr. Sager smiled and said, “Thanks a lot for entertaining me.”

Craig Graham Sager was born on June 29, 1951, in Batavia, Ill. His father, Al, was an advertising and public-relations executive; his mother, Coral, was an avid golfer who held a pilot’s license.

Mr. Sager attended Northwestern University, where, after trying out for the football team and playing for the freshman basketball team, he stepped into one of his earliest outrageous guises: Willie the Wildcat, the university’s mascot.

After Northwestern’s football team upset Ohio State, Mr. Sager taunted the losing players while still in costume. In response, he wrote, members of the Ohio State marching band “began to push me and poke me with their flagpoles.”

After graduation he became a reporter for a radio station in Sarasota, Fla. On one assignment he leapt onto the field at Atlanta-Fulton County Stadium after Hank Aaron hit his 715th home run to surpass Babe Ruth as baseball’s home run king. Wearing a trench coat, Mr. Sager, then 23, caught up to Mr. Aaron at home plate, amid a scrum of fans, reporters and relatives, to briefly interview him.

Three years later, while covering the Belmont Stakes, Mr. Sager slept in Seattle Slew’s stable the night before the thoroughbred won the Triple Crown. Before leaving to take the horse for a morning walk, Mr. Sager wrote, he scooped up a piece of Seattle Slew’s excrement and preserved it for the next 39 years as a fragment of history.

Mr. Sager also worked at TV stations in Florida and Kansas City, Mo., before joining CNN in 1981. In 1990 he moved to Turner Sports, where, besides the N.B.A., he covered golf, the National Football League, college football and basketball, and Major League Baseball.

Mr. Sager is survived by his son Craig as well as another son, Ryan; his daughters, Kacy, Krista and Riley Sager; his second wife, Stacy; and a sister, Candy Menzemer.

Mr. Sager’s positive attitude and consuming desire to return to the sideline won him the Jimmy V Perseverance Award — named for Jim Valvano, the former North Carolina State basketball coach and ESPN commentator who died of bone cancer in 1993 — at the ESPY Awards show in July.

Wearing a floral print jacket, he said in his acceptance speech: “Whatever I might have imagined a terminal diagnosis would do to my spirit, it summoned quite the opposite — the greatest appreciation for life itself. So I will never give up, and I will never give in.”

INDIANAPOLIS — Put aside for the moment the women’s sports revolution and its ever-accompanying and sometimes distressing social commentary. On Saturday at the women’s Final Four, the day before the national semifinals, it was time to reflect on the 80 basketball minutes impeding Connecticut’s bid for an unprecedented fourth consecutive national championship.

“I know we’re just anxious,” said the Huskies’ coach, Geno Auriemma, who was also on the threshold of individual history, poised to win an 11th title, or one more than John Wooden, the career Division I men’s leader.

On the other side of what would appear to be a lopsided semifinal equation was Scott Rueck, the Oregon State coach, who explained that his potholed road to Sunday’s game with 36-0 Connecticut began in 2010, when he inherited a team from which nine of 11 players had transferred and open tryouts were necessary to field a squad. There were three incoming freshmen, a junior college transfer, four walk-ons who wound up earning minutes, a soccer player and a volleyball player.

“Utter chaos,” Rueck said.

His intriguing tale made an impression on Auriemma, who said: “I mean, how can a school in the Pac-12 have tryouts? It just goes to show you how bad the program was when he took over.”

Auriemma added, “I think it’s another great example of how many great schools in this country just have the wrong leaders, and if they hired the right people, they would be where Oregon State is today.”

Led by their senior guard Jamie Weisner, their 6-foot-6 senior center Ruth Hamblin and the junior Sydney Wiese, the Beavers are 32-4, having upset Baylor in the regional final. They are also one of the three programs appearing for the first time in the Final Four, with Washington (29-7), also out of the Pacific-12, to meet Syracuse (26-10) in Sunday’s other semifinal.

When Breanna Stewart and her fellow Huskies won their first title in 2013, Weisner and Hamblin were shaking off a 10-win freshman season. The art of university commitment to its women’s teams and companion program building is the subplot to the overriding theme of the Connecticut dynasty’s being heavily favored to march on with three stars — Stewart being the brightest, with Moriah Jefferson and Morgan Tuck also shining. The Huskies’ seniors would be the only women’s or men’s class in Division I history to run the N.C.A.A. four-year table.

Tuck has another year of eligibility after redshirting her sophomore season, but she is not expected back, contributing to hopes around the country that Auriemma and Connecticut may be vulnerable on some level next season, if not this one.

Asked about sentimentality for the class he recruited in 2012, Auriemma said, “Next October, when practice starts.” He said he would look around and know what he was missing.

When the Huskies annihilated Mississippi State by 60 points in the second round, Vic Schaefer, the humbled coach, said, “I don’t know what team in the league they can’t compete with.”

He was talking about the W.N.B.A., not any college conference.

Kara Lawson, a former Tennessee star and an ESPN analyst, read the comment “not necessarily as gender-based” — in other words, someone applying the same standards with men in assuming they become much better as they mature and move on to the pros.

Lawson did think it was nonetheless wrongheaded hyperbole.

“People were also saying that about the Kentucky men last year, that they would beat the 76ers,” she said. “What they’re doing is so great that you want to think of something greater, instead of saying, ‘We haven’t seen this before; this is awesome; I don’t even have something to compare it to.’ So instead I’m just going to say that they would win the freaking Olympic gold medal in Rio.

“Why do we have to make something up that’s not true? Because then it turns around and you have to say: ‘No, I’m not going to make that comparison. I’m talking bad about them, saying, no, they’re not that good.’ ”

Back in the context of what Oregon State faces Sunday night, Weisner said of the Huskies: “I would say it’s even an honor to play against them. In 20 years, I can tell my kids that I played against that UConn team.”

Before crossing the threshold into hero worship, Weisner added, “We’re going to go into it very prepared and fearless.” And hopeful that with Hamblen anchoring the interior and the Beavers’ grinding, physical style, they can force Connecticut into a slower-paced, lower-scoring game.

Pull an upset for the ages, and the Beavers could find themselves in an all-Pac-12 final against Washington and its talented 5-8 junior guard Kelsey Plum, against whom they twice won close games this season.

Or Connecticut and Stewart could land in what would be a most fitting final against Syracuse, the city from which Stewart hails. When she was in high school, she played club ball for a team in Philadelphia, where one of her teammates was Brittney Sykes, Syracuse’s 5-9 redshirt junior guard from Newark.

“Growing up in Syracuse, I thought about it, going there,” Stewart said. “Who wouldn’t think about going to the hometown school and that stuff?”

She might have wound up running with Alexis Peterson, the Orange’s talented point guard, and the 3-point specialist Brianna Butler. But then Stewart paid a visit to Connecticut. As Auriemma said: “Stewie was easy. I mean, no frills, no drama.”

The drama comes now, whatever the margins of presumed Connecticut victories might be. In Lawson’s mind, Stewart is already the best player in women’s college history — “and I really don’t care what happens this weekend.” She said her opinion was based on an extension of the Mississippi State coach’s W.N.B.A. assertion.

When people rank Stewart with past UConn greats, like Diana Taurasi and Maya Moore, they are basing the comparisons on what those players became as pros.

“Obviously, it’s part of the subjective,” Lawson said, adding that in college Taurasi and Moore were not the dominant forces on both ends of the floor that Stewart has been.

As Lawson spoke about UConn’s last push for N.C.A.A. tournament perfection, she said, “I’m not a bean counter,” but two more victories, and “Stewie’s got all the beans.”