Carmelo Anthony and Phil Jackson met on Saturday in an effort to smooth over tension created last week when Jackson, the Knicks’ president, criticized Anthony in an interview with CBS Sports Network for sometimes holding on to the ball for too long during games.

The meeting came before the Knicks practiced in Los Angeles ahead of a Sunday night game against the Lakers, the second of five games on the team’s trip out west. The Knicks had won the first game, on Friday night at Sacramento, to improve to 13-10 on the season and have generally been a positive story this season — except for the several occasions Jackson has created turbulence with his remarks.

The disclosure that the two men had met came from Anthony, who spoke to reporters at the practice. Jackson rarely speaks with the reporters who regularly cover the team and did not do so in this instance, either.

Anthony said Jackson had requested the meeting to clear the air.

“He said his piece; I said my piece,” Anthony said.

The question hanging over the meeting, Anthony said, was simple: Why does his name keep coming up in remarks by Jackson regardless of how the Knicks are playing?

Anthony also disclosed that he had sought advice from Kobe Bryant, who won five championships with the Lakers with Jackson as his coach. Bryant advised him that Jackson was “going to talk” and not to read too much into it, Anthony said.

Jackson was expected to be at the Knicks’ game against the Lakers on Sunday.

LAS VEGAS — Far from the hysteria of March Madness, its billion-dollar television deal and its sold-out stadiums, the largely empty arena at the Mandalay Bay Events Center this week reverberated with the sounds of bouncing basketballs, squeaking sneakers and coaches’ loud, sometimes profane exhortations.

Standing behind the Oakland University bench Tuesday night, a fan cheered loudly as he roamed the empty aisles, shouting instructions in the direction of Coach Greg Kampe, in his 31st season leading Oakland. In the huddle after play was stopped following a loose-ball scramble, Kampe asked who had called the timeout. The fan, Craig Kadden, roared, “I called the timeout.”

The coach laughed. The players laughed. The smattering of other fans laughed.

This is how it has gone at the inaugural Vegas 16 tournament, the newest event added to college basketball’s increasingly crowded postseason. The tournament was created to attract teams that were not invited to the N.C.A.A. tournament, or were passed over by the N.I.T., or were left out of the two other postseason dances for the uninvited: the CollegeInsider.com Tournament and the College Basketball Invitational.

And the Vegas 16 is technically not a 16, either; its promoter, Brooks Downing, said the field was reduced to eight teams on Selection Sunday after programs from Power 5 conferences that had asked Downing to hold slots for them backed out. The reasons varied. One university president nixed the idea, Downing said. At another college, he said, the athletic director pulled the plug because he was getting ready to fire the coach. At another, the players voted not to take part.

Rather than invite teams ranked lower in the Rating Percentage Index, Downing, a former sports information director at Kentucky, and his partner Jim Livengood, a former athletic director for Arizona and Nevada-Las Vegas, decided to invite the strongest eight teams they could find, they said. Each team paid $50,000 to take part; the fee covered each team’s transportation and hotel accommodations, an arrangement more common in college football’s postseason.

“We really made it a bowl game for basketball,” Downing said.

It’s an intriguing experiment. In college football, in which a 6-6 team celebrates a bowl bid, there is an acknowledgment that postseason games and their sunny destinations are rewards, created and preserved to give seniors a chance to go out with a victory — and possibly to give athletic department budgets a boost.

That is not the mentality in basketball, where the N.C.A.A. tournament reigns supreme and even coaches who get to 20 wins are sometimes fired. Developing second-tier tournaments like the Vegas 16 will be tough, especially if the Power 5 programs don’t get on board. But the greatest challenge for Downing may be changing the basketball mind-set that the N.C.A.A. tournament is the Holy Grail and the N.I.T. is the only acceptable consolation prize.

But as the Power 5 conferences surround their multimillion-dollar kingdoms with deeper and wider moats, maybe it’s fine that other programs are finding ways to end their seasons with one final March highlight.

On Monday, the University of California at Santa Barbara defeated Northern Illinois to record its first postseason tournament victory in 25 years. Northern Illinois had not even played in a national postseason tournament since 1996.

For Old Dominion, which defeated Oakland University (of Rochester, Mich.) by 68-67 for the championship on Wednesday night, the tournament was a chance to get back on the court after a last-second loss to Middle Tennessee in the Conference USA championship game.

“They were still in tears as we made our way down the hallway and Aaron said, ‘Coach, will we get a chance to play again?’ ” Old Dominion Coach Jeff Jones said, referring to the senior Aaron Bacote. “Kids who love to play want to play.”

But in college sports, in which coaches often rule with an iron fist, the players don’t always have a choice in where and when they play. Louisville, facing N.C.A.A. discipline, imposed a postseason ban on itself in February, to the dismay of its seniors. Louisiana State announced on Selection Sunday that it would refuse any postseason invitations.

Based on a cursory poll of players here, most were happy to be invited. And the bowl game comparison may be a good one because big-time college basketball and big-time college football are already borrowing each other’s most popular concepts.

Football has moved closer to basketball’s March Madness model by creating its own Final Four, the College Football Playoff. Why shouldn’t basketball appropriate the bowl model?

“You have new life,” said Oakland’s Kay Felder, the Horizon League’s player of the year. “Our record is 0-0. All that other stuff is out of the window now.”

Felder, a 5-foot-9 junior guard who led Division I in assists and was fourth in scoring, has more motivation than most. After his sparkling season, he is getting looks from N.B.A. scouts, so any chance to show off his game is worth taking. He celebrated his 21st birthday on Tuesday by recording a triple-double in a semifinal win over East Tennessee State and said afterward that watching N.C.A.A. and N.I.T. games only intensified his desire to play games.

“You see all those other teams playing, and we’re still playing,” he said. “Why not represent the Horizon League in a good way?”

Kampe said he wasn’t sure he wanted to accept the invitation. Oakland was devastated by its loss to Wright State in the Horizon League tournament.

“We really felt we could get to the N.C.A.A. tournament,” Kampe said. “But after a few days, they said they want to play.”

Kampe said he wasn’t bothered by the paucity of spectators, even if he had one of the loudest ones in his corner.

After Tuesday night’s semifinal, I asked Kadden, Oakland’s boisterous superfan, why he was such an enthusiastic Oakland supporter. Was he a graduate? A friend of the coach? A relative of a player? None of the above.

Kadden said he lived near Oakland, Calif., and decided that was connection enough.

“My mom lives in town, I was visiting her, and I like basketball,” said Kadden, who added that — perhaps unlike other curious onlookers — he had not bet on the game.

In their first year, the promoters will take any fan they can get. “It’s going to take time for people to get used to it,” Livengood said.

Downing was more enthusiastic, and Livengood, too, thinks the stands won’t always be so empty. “I think in five years,” Downing said, “we’ll own this space outside the N.C.A.A. tournament.”

Bold talk. But if you’re going to take a gamble, there’s no better place to do it than here.

One day after Carmelo Anthony was again caught in the crossfire of Phil Jackson’s provocative comments, Anthony took to social media Thursday to offer seemingly coded messages in response.

Jackson, the Knicks’ president, made some critical comments about Anthony’s play in an interview with CBS Sports Network on Wednesday, and that did not seem to sit well with Anthony.

“EGO is the only requirement to destroy any relationship,” Anthony wrote on Twitter, along with a picture of himself. “So, be a BiGGER person, skip the “E” and let it “GO.”

Twenty-two minutes later, he posted a photo of Muhammad Ali, besieged by arrows, and provided his own caption: “UN-Phased (MyLifeSummedUpInOnePhoto).”

After the Knicks’ loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers on Wednesday night, Anthony was clearly agitated by questions about Jackson, nearly walking out of his postgame interview when the topic was brought up. In the CBS interview, Jackson favorably compared Anthony to Kobe Bryant and Michael Jordan as centerpieces of the triangle offense, but he also delivered some criticism.

“Carmelo a lot of times wants to hold the ball longer than — we have a rule: If you hold a pass two seconds, you benefit the defense,” Jackson said. “So he has a little bit of a tendency to hold it for three, four, five seconds, and then everybody comes to a stop.”

Anthony claimed ignorance of Jackson’s comments at that point, adding: “Whatever Phil said, he said. I have nothing to say.”

Despite Jackson’s claims, Anthony has actually been relatively quick with the ball this year. Among the 220 N.B.A. players who average at least 20 minutes per game, Anthony ranks 87th in average seconds per touch, according to NBA.com stats. And, on average, he has been holding onto the ball less than he did last season.

Knicks Coach Jeff Hornacek said that, while Anthony may be too static from time to time, he has earned the benefit of the doubt.

“Sometimes when we talk about moving the ball and holding it, maybe it’s a second or two too long for a normal guy,” Hornacek said. “But for Carmelo it’s fine because he can make that play.”

When the Knicks took the floor at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday night, they faced a bracing headwind.

At the high point of their season after a win at Miami, they had returned home early Wednesday to discover that Derrick Rose, a fulcrum of their offense, would be sidelined by an injury. And waiting for them were the Cleveland Cavaliers, the best team in the Eastern Conference and the defending N.B.A. champions.

If any team was inclined to show no mercy to the Knicks, it was the Cavaliers. LeBron James entered the game with a high-profile grievance against Phil Jackson, the Knicks’ president, and a history of paying off slights. James’s penchant for turning games in New York into spectacles only added to the Knicks’ concerns.

It was a setup for a disastrous night, and it played out that way for the Knicks. The game was effectively out of reach by the third quarter as the Cavaliers rolled to a 126-94 victory that ended a four-game winning streak for the Knicks and established a clear demarcation line between the Knicks and the league’s true title contenders.

James was his usual unstoppable self. He scored 25 points and dished out 7 assists — impressive numbers that he achieved with little trouble. He missed only one shot in the first half, when the Cavaliers pressured a sapped Knicks defense, flowing into transition, pushing the pace and moving the ball as the defenders played catch-up.

It was an audacious force for the Knicks to try to contain, considering their circumstances. The Cavaliers were well-rested after having a free night in New York on Tuesday, while the Knicks did not return from Miami until the early morning. Kristaps Porzingis got home Wednesday at 3:20 a.m.

Though such back-to-back games are a staple of the N.B.A., it does not reduce the difficulty they present, especially when an opponent like Cleveland awaits on the back end.

“It’s definitely embarrassing to get blown out on national television,” Brandon Jennings said. “I don’t care about the situation.”

James was also not the only star in an awkward position with Jackson. In his interview with CBS Sports Network on Tuesday, Jackson said Anthony had a tendency to hold onto the ball too long. But Anthony had no interest in speaking about it, claiming ignorance of the comments and nearly walking away from his postgame interview when he was asked about it.

“Whatever Phil said, he said,” Anthony said. “I have nothing to say.”

That put the focus back on the loss. Hornacek had laid out a checklist before the game on how to stop the Cavaliers, but James and his teammates quickly tore it to pieces.

Hornacek had wanted the Knicks to get back in transition, but the Cavaliers continually ran down the floor in the open court. Where Hornacek wanted his defenders to anticipate ball movement and close out on shooters, Cleveland was consistently a step ahead and successfully launched shots from beyond the 3-point line. The Cavaliers’ production repudiated the defensive progress Hornacek thought the Knicks had made.

Hornacek had believed the matchup would serve as a barometer; the answer was clear and unkind. The Knicks had won nine of their last 12 games before Wednesday. By getting to three games above .500, they had reached their best record in the last four seasons.

But their performance against the Cavaliers showed that they were not ready to be considered among the best in the conference. The result was similar to the 29-point thrashing the Cavaliers administered to them on opening night, even if Hornacek believes the Knicks have improved since then.

“We feel we’re a better team now than that first game,” Hornacek said before the game. “But they’re still the champs.”

Rose’s absence did not help. He missed the game because of a lower back injury he sustained Tuesday in Miami. He underwent a magnetic resonance imaging exam, which revealed no structural damage, and he will join the team for its upcoming five-game, nine-day West Coast road trip. His status is listed as day to day.

Jennings stepped into the starting lineup, but the Knicks could not maintain the offensive flow that had helped them score at least 102 points in 11 consecutive games. Jennings scored 16 points, a team-high and an inauspicious statistic for the Knicks. While the Cavaliers’ headliners — James, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love — combined for 74 points, the Knicks’ stars were silent. Anthony scored just eight points, matching the season-low total he had in Cleveland in October. Kristaps Porzingis scored 12 points but missed 10 of his 15 shots.

Neither played the final 10 minutes 10 seconds, sitting out most of the fourth quarter with the game far out of hand. The game had never been that close anyway. The Cavaliers led by 17 less than nine minutes into it and pushed their lead to 30 after half. The Knicks, depleted and weary on the end of a back-to-back, hardly looked up to the test.

SALT LAKE CITY — About 15 coaches filed onto the mezzanine-like balcony overlooking a basketball practice court. They wore warm-up apparel and sneakers. As the Utes men’s team began its practice, some took notes in small Moleskine notebooks; others consulted printouts of set plays.

It was late September, so several assistant coaches were on the road recruiting, and the practice itself was focused on getting players into shape and integrating new faces as opposed to game-planning any opponents.

But it was still a big-time college basketball practice, so at times, it got intense. Utah Coach Larry Krystkowiak stopped one drill and, in a not-angry-just-disappointed tone, told his team, “You guys are just full of it today; everybody’s got something to say.”

The observing coaches did not know exactly what Krystkowiak said, but they understood the coach’s frustration and determination. And they took note. They were among the best junior high and high school basketball coaches in China, brought to Utah’s gorgeous campus in a partnership between their government and the Pacific-12 Conference and the University of Utah.

This is no longer Ping-Pong diplomacy.

“The coaches — they are very passionate when they train their players,” said Sun Fengleng, who coaches in Jilin, a province in China’s northeast. “He is really good with the players, trains them well.”

Sun added, “I want to learn the attitude and bring it back.”

Krystkowiak, a onetime N.B.A. power forward who has led the Utes to the N.C.A.A. tournament the past two seasons, seemed to endorse Sun’s takeaway.

“If they want to improve at basketball,” he said, “it’s not always the place to be polite.”

The Chinese government hopes many more coaches will learn that lesson. Nearly 100 Chinese junior high and high school coaches in the sports of men’s and women’s basketball, track and field, swimming and cheerleading were sent to Utah, and roughly the same number of Chinese college coaches went to Arizona State, which is also in the Pac-12.

The coaches observed practices and weight-room sessions. They got some time on the court themselves with Utah coaches. They participated in talks on injury rehabilitation and conducted film-room sessions. They even got to see the final bit of this year’s football game against Brigham Young, known locally as the Holy War.

Indeed, it is partly America’s fairly unusual model of competitive athletics enshrined in educational institutions that the coaches have come to study, said Kyle Brennan, Utah’s deputy athletic director.

“Coaches are coaches,” he said with a chuckle. “Giving them a compliance class, they want to push the boundaries. ‘Why can’t I recruit a kid from another school?’ Well, these are the rules we’ve got.”

The program is financed by the Chinese Scholarship Council and organized by Federation University Sports China — a sort of state-sponsored Chinese N.C.A.A. that saw the coaches’ trips as much more than relaxed junkets.

“China’s interested in making sure that they come back, and this isn’t just a sightseeing tour,” Brennan said. “They want them to learn something.”

Their three-month residency in Utah, near mountains whose peaks were already snow-capped, was one of several signs of the Pac-12’s interest in claiming dominion over the Pacific Rim.

This college football season opened with Cal’s 51-31 victory over Hawaii in Sydney, Australia. On Friday night in Shanghai, Stanford scored an 80-70 victory over Harvard in men’s basketball — the second game in a series of Pac-12 contests held in China. Washington beat Texas there last year in the first regular-season game in China, and the series will continue next year, the conference announced Friday, with U.C.L.A. facing Georgia Tech.

The games are part of the Pac-12 Globalization Initiative. Larry Scott, the Pac-12 commissioner, said that the initiative sprung out of meetings he held with the conference’s presidents in 2009, his first year on the job.

“I posited, given the global focus of our universities and given that athletics is meant to act as the front porch, does it make sense for us to pursue international conference athletics activities to help promote the broader agenda the universities have?” Scott said. “And there was a resounding yes.”

From Washington to Cal to Stanford to Utah and beyond, many Pac-12 members have large numbers of Chinese students, as well as extensive relationships in China. Scott noted that several Washington officials went along to last year’s Huskies-Longhorns basketball game to further an initiative between the university and Tsinghua University in Beijing.

“We are making progress in terms of building the brand and exposure for the Pac-12,” Scott added. “That leads to very specific opportunities for our universities.”

Nearly 40 percent of the University of Utah’s foreign students are Chinese, and the state’s former governor Jon Huntsman, for whose father the Utes’ basketball arena is named, was the American ambassador to China. At a ceremony welcoming the coaches to Salt Lake City, Huntsman spoke to them in fluent Mandarin.

“We’re interested in recruiting top Chinese students,” said Michael L. Hardman, who runs the university’s Office for Global Engagement.

Chris Hill, Utah’s athletic director, said that when the idea for the residencies for Chinese coaches was first raised among Pac-12 members, about four raised their hands.

“I think other people were afraid of the challenge, and your coaches have to be cooperative,” Hill said, “and I think some of the others felt, ‘Do we need to be the first ones to do this?’”

To that end, athletics staff members received cultural training and, in turn, insisted that the visiting coaches abide by certain rules so as not to get in the way of the Utah coaches’ primary jobs — training their teams.

“We had to work hard on the front end of education, trying to get them to understand there’s certain things you can’t do because it will hinder our success,” Brennan said. “If you’re up there talking while Coach is trying to teach, that’s going to be a problem. We had some upfront conversations.”

During one practice, the coaches were largely silent.

“They are very effective,” Gu Hong Xia, a woman who coaches a top junior high squad in Nanjing, said through an interpreter, referring to Utah’s coaches and players. “They don’t train for a very long time, but they are very efficient.”

Wang Hui, who coaches in Shanxi, said through an interpreter that his time in Utah had made him feel good about his own postpractice rehabilitation practices, which appeared to match Utah’s. More than any technical expertise, the most valuable lesson he learned, he said, concerned “attitude.”

“The players here are very motivated and want to do good,” he said.

The coaches received their own cultural training, in the form of a seminar in China on how to adjust to American mores.

“They trained us for four days on American culture, manners, different things — like don’t smoke in the building — and told us to learn as much as we can and bring it back to China, to our players,” Sun said.

Fortunately, Sun added, he does not smoke.

Dwayne Washington, better known as Pearl, a charismatic point guard who achieved legend status as a Brooklyn schoolboy before moving upstate, where he helped lift Syracuse University to national prominence in basketball, died on Wednesday in the Bronx. He was 52.

His sister, Janie Washington Bennett, said the cause was brain cancer. He had survived a previous bout with cancer 20 years ago, she said.

Few teenage athletes have created the kind of magical aura that Washington did. He eventually played three years in the National Basketball Association, two for the Nets (then in New Jersey) and one for the Miami Heat, but his stature in the game was founded before he ever turned professional.

A sensation on the playgrounds of the tough Brooklyn neighborhoods of Brownsville and East New York, he was just about unstoppable when he played at Boys and Girls High School, where in his senior year he averaged 35 points, 10 rebounds, 8 assists and 4 steals a game and was reportedly the most highly recruited player in the nation.

He said he was called Pearl from the time he was 8 years old, a nod to Earl (The Pearl) Monroe, the Hall of Fame guard with the dizzying spin moves and soft, sweet jumper who had recently been traded to the Knicks from the Baltimore Bullets (now the Washington Wizards). Washington told The New York Times that when older players on the court witnessed his fanciful moves, they asked him, “Who do you think you are, the Pearl?”

At 6 feet 2 inches and about 190 pounds, Washington was not especially fast and not much of a leaper. (His Syracuse teammates called him Fat Butt.) But his ballhandling was nonpareil, and his court vision was superb; with the ball he moved with a muscular ease and, faking brilliantly, could easily separate from a defender to create his own shot.

His shooting touch was sometimes questioned, but he shot better than 50 percent over his three years at Syracuse. There, under Coach Jim Boeheim, he adapted to a system that did not require — or want — him to be a one-man team. His game matured, and he became a true point guard: a quarterback who ran the plays, dished to teammates and took advantage of opponents who had trouble keeping up with his shifty moves and powerful drives to the hoop. In three seasons, 1983 to 1986, he averaged 15.7 points per game; in 1985 he was a second-team all-American.

When Washington arrived at Syracuse, the Big East Conference, to which it belonged, was in its early years and just becoming nationally prominent. His college years overlapped with those of Patrick Ewing at Georgetown and Chris Mullin at St. John’s, both of them Big East stars, but Washington may have been the biggest draw.

“You can’t talk about the Big East and not talk about Pearl Washington,” the sportswriter and broadcaster Michael Wilbon said in “Requiem for the Big East,” a 2014 ESPN documentary. “You can’t write the history. He’s in the first paragraph. He’s in the first line.”

On Jan. 21, 1984, early in his freshman season, Washington beat Boston College with a half-court shot at the buzzer. A month later, Sports Illustrated devoted a feature article to him under the headline “All Syracuse Is His Oyster.”

“In the open court, or on the break, or steering through the lane one on one, there’s nobody better,” the article’s author, Curry Kirkpatrick, wrote.

Syracuse plays at the Carrier Dome, an enormous arena that also serves the university as a football stadium, and Washington filled it for basketball as it had never been filled before. More than 30,000 people witnessed his Boston College game-winner. Average attendance in the season before his arrival was 20,401 fans per game. In his freshman year, it was almost 2,000 fans more. In his third year, the average climbed over 26,000.

“He was the most exciting player who ever played in the Big East,” Boeheim said in the documentary.

Dwayne Alonzo Washington was born in Brooklyn on Jan. 6, 1964. His father, George, was a construction worker; his mother, Janie, worked in a factory.

Not a particularly attentive student in high school, Washington chose to go to Syracuse, he said, because he wanted to play in the Carrier Dome and because the school had a strong speech communications program. Though he left the university early to play in the N.B.A. — he was drafted in the first round, 13th overall, by the Nets in 1986 — he returned after his pro career to finish his degree. He was studying for a master’s degree at the Syracuse College of Education before his illness made continuing impossible.

Washington made frequent appearances at Syracuse games and remained a beloved figure on campus. In his honor, the members of this year’s Syracuse men’s basketball team wore orange warm-up shirts with “Pearl” and “31” — his former number — inscribed in white.

Washington was married once and divorced. In addition to his sister, he is survived by his mother; his partner, Debra Busacco; a brother, George Jr.; a son, Dwayne Jr.; two daughters, Damara Washington and Tatiana Washington; and four grandchildren.