FRONT PAGE

An article on Monday about a sweeping anti-corruption campaign in Saudi Arabia misstated when Salman became king of the country. It was in 2015, not 2005.

INTERNATIONAL

An article on Monday about Martin Selmayr, a German lawyer who was recently promoted to the job of deputy secretary general of the European Commission, misstated Alexander Italianer’s title. He was the secretary general of the European Commission, not the chief of staff.

NEW YORK

An article on Monday about a helicopter that crashed into the East River misstated the number of people who died in a 2011 episode in which another helicopter crashed into the river. It was three, not one. (Two died from injuries in the following weeks.)

BUSINESS DAY

An article on Monday about SoftBank’s ambitions to build an elite private equity firm misstated the amount of assets that Kohlberg Kravis Roberts has under its management. It is $168 billion, not $148 billion.

•

An article on Saturday about the possible effects of tariffs proposed by President Trump on rural voters in the Midwest misstated the age of Davie Stephens, vice president of the American Soybean Association. He is 52, not 67.

•

An article on Saturday about an antitrust case centering on AT&T’s efforts to buy Time Warner misstated the surname of a research analyst at Macquarie Group. She is Amy Yong, not Young.

SPORTS

An article on Monday about the nuances in Jake Arrieta’s new contract with the Phillies misstated Andy MacPhail’s title with the Phillies. He is the team president, not the president of baseball operations.

•

An article on Thursday about the dearth of practice space for the 25 men’s college basketball teams that competed in concurrent tournaments in New York misstated part of the name of the school at which Miami practiced. It is Léman Manhattan Preparatory School, not Academy.

THE ARTS

Because of an editing error, an article on March 10 about the music of Gyorgy Ligeti and teaching listeners to like difficult music did not fully identify a composer quoted in the article. The composer who said “I have no desire to explain any work of art” is Gerard McBurney, the organizer of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra series Beyond the Score from 2005-16.

•

An article on Saturday about the production of a Barbie doll modeled after the Mexican artist Frida Kahlo misstated Ms. Kahlo’s age at the time of her death in 1954. She was 47, not 44. Although Ms. Kahlo said she was 44, it was subsequently determined that she was born in 1907, not 1910.

•

A Critic’s Notebook article on Saturday about ballet companies in Philadelphia misstated the year that Matthew Neenan’s “Increasing” had its premiere. It was in 2014, not 2016.

•

An art review on Saturday about the Armory Show at Piers 92/94 omitted the name of a co-presenter of Jeffrey Gibson’s installation. It is also being presented by Roberts Projects, not by Kavi Gupta alone. The review also omitted a co-presenter of Sarah Cain’s “two-day painting.” It is being presented by the Honor Fraser Gallery, as well as Galerie Lelong.

WEEKEND ARTS

A review on Friday about the film “Shining Moon” misspelled the surname of the movie’s director. It is Letelier, not Leteiler. The error was repeated in a capsule summary.

Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.

To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).

Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.

For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.

PYEONGCHANG, South Korea — Rusty Schieber, the United States wheelchair curling coach, has a theory about the future of the American Paralympic movement. It echoes the past.

The Stoke Mandeville Games, the forerunner of the Paralympics, were established in 1948 to restore a sense of purpose to veterans and civilians injured during World War II. As exposure and opportunities increased, American veterans developed a deep connection to the Paralympics, assuming progressively prominent roles on Team U.S.A.

They accounted for 24.3 percent (18 of 74) of the American roster here at the 2018 event, which ended Sunday with the United States atop the medal table with 36. Veterans were 22.5 percent (18 of 80) of the team four years ago in Sochi, Russia, and 10 percent (5 of 50) eight years ago in Vancouver, British Columbia. As Schieber sees it, those figures will only swell in the coming years, even as worldwide conflicts have declined, because of one reason.

“It’s moving toward an organization disproportionately composed of military veterans because of the funding that veterans are eligible for and civilians are not,” Schieber said.

In many cases, pursuing Paralympic glory places a financial strain on American athletes, who receive sport-specific stipends from the United States Olympic Committee but also seek out grants and hold fund-raisers to offset costs associated with travel and equipment. All that also applies to veterans. But at every stage of the process, from their introduction to a sport to competing in it on an international level, they are eligible for assistance that further subsidizes their quest.

“Thankfully we’re not getting as many kids blown up as we used to, but there are more avenues for the veterans to get some of those financial burdens lifted,” said Nico Marcolongo, the senior manager of Operation Rebound, a program for veterans and emergency medical workers affiliated with the Challenged Athletes Foundation. He added, “If all things are equal, it’s harder for a nonveteran to get their start and get their resources than it would be for a veteran.”

Schieber, who served in the Air Force from 1985 to 1992, has no patience for those who criticize the imbalance, but he is aware of it. The uneven playing field has ramifications on recruiting, roster composition and team dynamics; Schieber suggested that in the past he needed to quell resentment over the discrepancy. None of the five curlers on the 2018 team, two of whom served in the Army, indicated in interviews that there was anything close to a rift.

“That athlete can train almost full time, in effect,” said Schieber, acknowledging that the athlete might then improve at a faster rate than a civilian. “We’re not paying him to be an athlete, but he’s getting totally subsidized by a third party, the U.S. government. He can live a pretty good financial life. He doesn’t have to have that second job. It’s hugely unlevel, but I don’t care. If you’re a veteran, take every penny you can get.”

The biggest help comes from the monthly allowance provided by the Department of Veterans Affairs, which is given only to athletes who are training or competing at a high level as defined by their sport’s governing body. A V.A. spokesman said 16 of the 18 veterans on the United States team here received an allowance.

Based on the number of dependents in the athlete’s family, that monthly stipend ranges from $617 to more than $1,100. Any veteran who receives the allowance, then, automatically makes at least $7,400 more than a civilian on the same team.

Before they are eligible to earn this extra money, veterans first must be exposed to a sport. From his experience, Schieber said, veterans who want to participate in outreach camps around the country can have their expenses covered by V.A. hospitals or private organizations. Then they must unearth sources of funding that abet their continued involvement.

Often, veterans turn to organizations like Operation Rebound, which awards an average of $1,500 in need-based grants to athletes, regardless of skill level, whose applications are accepted, and the Semper Fi Fund.

Jimmy Sides, a former Marine, was introduced to snowboarding through the Walter Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland, which offered trips to places like Breckenridge, Colo. Calling his advantage “almost unfair,” Sides said Semper Fi provided almost all of his funding to compete, paying for gear, registration costs and race fees.

“I feel bad for the guy that loses his leg in a motorcycle accident or the cancer patient that loves snowboarding and wants to do this but has to struggle and grind,” Sides said.

On the curling team, Justin Marshall, who did not serve in the military but said that many members of his family did, works 40 hours a week as an architectural associate and spends about 20 hours practicing. Last year, he took about two months of unpaid leave and was responsible for costs of domestic travel.

In an interview at the Utica Curling Club in Whitesboro, N.Y., before the Paralympics, Marshall said that his situation was hard, but that he would never hold that against his teammates who were veterans.

“Almost every guy in my family served in the military, and I probably would have followed except I had my spinal cord stroke when I was 12,” he said. “It helps them, so I can’t be mad at them for it. I wish I had that extra funding, but I don’t, so I just try to find another way to take care of that.”

His teammate Steve Emt, who served in the Army, teaches seventh-grade math in Connecticut, where, to his eternal gratitude, the school board grants him time off to compete. Emt, a former walk-on basketball player at the University of Connecticut who became a paraplegic from a car accident in 1995, recruits veterans to curling.

“I was told that I could be a Paralympian,” Emt said. “Being a young sport, it’s a big selling point. The chances of vets making the basketball team are slim. So, come curl. If we can tell them, ‘Hey, we’ve got a trip to the U.S. Open in New York that could be fully funded for you because you’re a veteran, come on up and play and learn the sport,’ they’ll be hooked.”

Rick Adams, the United States Olympic Committee’s chief of Paralympics, agreed that infrastructure and support for veterans across the nascent stages of an athlete’s development were beneficial, but he hesitated to say that could be parlayed into an increased presence on the American team.

“It’s a possibility, but most of the time what you find is that they may not have been in a sport for a long time,” Adams said. “I think there’s a balance between someone who’s been participating for a long period of time and someone who’s been in the military for a long time and then they’re in a situation where they’re Paralympic-eligible and take up a sport. I don’t know I would extrapolate out to say that they’re at an advantage.”

The U.S.O.C. bases how much money to award sports in the Olympics and Paralympics on many factors, but above all success. It is unlikely that the wheelchair curlers, who have yet to medal since the sport was added in 2006 and finished in last place here out of 12 nations, will receive more money than in the past. And so Schieber, to improve the team’s fortunes in the future, might be more likely to recruit as many military veterans as possible: He knows that they’d be more likely to afford the expenses to compete.

“If I’m looking at two athletes that are absolutely equal, does it fall into my mind that the veteran may have the better opportunity for funding and may be long-term a better athlete down the road?” Schieber said. “You hate to say it. That’s a rhetorical question. I can’t give you an answer.”

An answer could come as soon as 2020, at the Tokyo Paralympics. The proportion of veterans has steadily increased in the Summer Paralympics, too, from 7.51 percent (16 of 213) of the United States roster in Beijing 10 years ago to 12.4 percent (33 of 267) two years ago in Rio de Janeiro.

Those numbers are not quite what they were 70 years ago at the Stoke Mandeville Games, of course. But maybe the United States Paralympic team is on its way.

OAKLAND, Calif. —  Andy Dolich, a former president of the Golden State Warriors and a longtime pro sports executive, paid a visit to his neighborhood Starbucks on Monday morning, and before he could even order his coffee, the barista hit him with an important question: How long?

“And I knew exactly what he was talking about,” Dolich said.

How long would Golden State’s high-scoring star Stephen Curry be sidelined by his injured knee? That was the question that loomed over the Bay Area like a toxic cloud, from the moment Curry slipped and fell Sunday afternoon in a first-round playoff game against the Houston Rockets until Monday afternoon, when he had a magnetic resonance imaging test.

“Probably the most eagerly awaited M.R.I. in Bay Area sports history,” Dolich said. “I couldn’t believe how many people had become orthopedic surgeons in the last 14 hours.”

The team announced that Curry, perhaps the most dynamic player in the league, would likely miss at least the next two weeks of the playoffs with a Grade 1 sprain in his right knee.

It was, all things considered, relatively good news for the Warriors — and for many basketball fans here, who had feared the worst but came away hopeful that Curry would return in time to help the team chase a second straight N.B.A. championship.

“Watching the Warriors without Steph Curry sort of feels like you’re looking at a beige Ferrari,” said Damon Bruce, a sports talk host for San Francisco’s KGMZ-FM, popularly known as 95.7 The Game. “You want it to be red. But I think the Warriors can survive this. I think they can survive this and buy Curry enough time.”

The Warriors have a three-games-to-one series lead over the Rockets, who will visit Oracle Arena for Game 5 on Wednesday night.

But Curry’s indefinite absence has left many around here taking on the delicate calculus of trying to predict when he might return. Late in the Western Conference semifinals? By the start of the conference finals and a potential meeting with the San Antonio Spurs?

This assumes, of course, that the Warriors will waste little time closing out the Rockets, who came completely unglued in Sunday’s game in Houston, even after Curry left for the visiting locker room at the start of the second half. Without him, and with Shaun Livingston capably filling in at point guard, the Warriors ran away with a 121-94 victory.

“I think fans are fueled by what they saw in the second half of that game, which was a tremendous performance,” said Brian Murphy, the co-host of a sports talk show for KNBR-AM in San Francisco. “There’s a big caveat to that, however: They were playing the Rockets.”

Yet Curry could also benefit from the glacial pace of the postseason. If the Warriors do advance past the Rockets, their second-round series against either the Los Angeles Clippers or the Portland Trail Blazers will not start until Sunday at the earliest.

“On a scale of 1 to 10, with 10 being a disaster, this rates as like a 6.5, pushing a 7,” Murphy said.

Murphy estimated that a “solid 90 percent” of his four-hour show on Monday morning revolved around Curry, with the remaining 10 percent centering on the San Francisco Giants — but only because of contractual obligations as the team’s flagship radio station.

“Joe Montana’s elbow in the early ’90s,” Murphy said, referring to the former San Francisco 49ers quarterback. “That was the last time a body part meant more to the Bay Area.”

By Monday afternoon, despair over Curry had given way to cautious optimism. A Grade 1 knee sprain, which typically involves microscopic ligament tears, is the most mild type of sprain, with Grade 3 being the most severe, said Alexis C. Colvin, an orthopedic surgeon specializing in sports medicine at the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.

“I’d say it’s one of the best-case scenarios because he does not need surgery and it’ll recover completely on its own,” said Dr. Colvin, who was speaking generally and without direct knowledge of Curry’s case. “It depends on how quickly he feels he’s up to speed. But he’s in good shape to begin with, and it’s not a very severe injury.”

Curry, the league’s reigning most valuable player, entered the playoffs after an almost superhuman regular season in which he averaged a league-leading 30.1 points while sinking an N.B.A.-record 402 3-pointers. He also led the league in steals and free-throw percentage as the Warriors, under Coach Steve Kerr, went 73-9, setting an N.B.A. record for victories in a season.

Curry also remained remarkably injury-free — until Game 1 against the Rockets on April 16, when he hurt his right ankle pivoting to retreat on defense. He missed Games 2 and 3 before returning Sunday for Game 4. On the final play of the first half, he slipped on a wet spot and tumbled, injuring his knee.

“Clearly, we don’t want to be here getting M.R.I.s at this point in the season, especially with someone of Steph’s stature,” General Manager Bob Myers said Monday afternoon at a news conference at the team’s practice facility. “But mechanically, the knee’s intact, so that’s good.

“It’s one of those things where we attempted to put a timetable on it, which is two weeks; we’re going to re-evaluate it. But we’ll know a little more, hopefully, after the first week. It’s how his body responds to rest, treatment — things like that.”

Injuries are a threat to teams with title aspirations. Consider the misfortune of the Cleveland Cavaliers, who were without two of their top players, Kyrie Irving and Kevin Love, when they fell to the Warriors in the finals last season. Now it is the Warriors’ turn to deal with adversity.

Jeff Goodby, an advertising executive and season-ticket holder, cited the team’s depth as an advantage.

“I think we’re all kind of whistling nervously and taking our lead from Steve Kerr: strength in numbers, baby,” Goodby said in an email. “Seriously, my focus group of friends says we shouldn’t play him until someone ties a series up with us. Won’t happen with the Rockets. Maybe not even with the Clippers. Save him for the Spurs.”

For now, the wait begins for fans who can only hope that the Warriors, absent their best player, continue to win.

CLEVELAND — The victory party commenced Sunday night after the Cleveland Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors, 93-89, to become the first team to rally from a three-games-to-one deficit to win the N.B.A. finals, and it has only grown in size and stature since.

It spread to I-X Center near Cleveland Hopkins International Airport on Monday afternoon as thousands of fans welcomed home the Cavaliers after the team had detoured to Las Vegas for a celebration of its own at XS nightclub. Traffic jams and sparse parking did not deter fans, some of whom had waited out the 52 years since a Cleveland sports team last delivered a major professional championship. Some simply drove onto the lawn lining the highway and walked a mile or more to the landing spot, high-fiving their brethren and letting out whoops of relief along the way.

The center of the party, though, has been downtown Cleveland, home of the Cavaliers’ Quicken Loans Arena. On Wednesday morning, fans clad in wine and gold flooded the streets for a championship parade that was scheduled for 11 a.m. but started late because of an estimated crowd of more than 1.3 million people crowding the routes. There were 77 units in the parade, which featured the Cavaliers, the former Cleveland Browns stars Jim Brown, Bernie Kosar and Earnest Byner, the Ohio State football coach Urban Meyer, the Buckeyes’ marching band and more. It lasted over four hours and was followed by a rally in a public mall area that extended well past 4:30 p.m.

Cavaliers General Manager David Griffin addressed the crowd, drawing loud cheers when he said, “The shot, the drive, the fumble all must now be replaced by the block, the 3 and the D.”

Mayor Frank G. Jackson of Cleveland congratulated the team on its “against all odds” N.B.A. finals victory and presented the Cavaliers with an official proclamation and keys to the city.

“The strength and determination displayed throughout the season, postseason and championship game are truly the embodiment of our city and its people,” he said in a statement before the parade. “A city and a people with heart.”

Several streets were closed, so officials urged fans to leave early and take public transportation, or stay downtown Tuesday night, fearing long backups on each major artery heading into the city. By Tuesday afternoon, however, hotel rooms were sold out.

Many former Cleveland residents, like Angela Meros, who grew up in Euclid, Ohio, but now lives in Chicago, flew in for the parade. Long lines for public transportation from the airport to downtown threatened to keep her away, but she arrived in time to catch the players’ floats.

Meros, 37, had also flown in for Games 4, 6 and 7, not wanting to miss the celebration 52 years in the making.

“Growing up a Clevelander, I’ve prayed for this moment for our city and always had faith in LeBron,” she said, referring to LeBron James, who was named the most valuable player of the N.B.A. finals. “I cried right along with him at the end of the game.”

The parade began at Quicken Loans Arena, wrapped around the Indians’ Progressive Field, headed up East Ninth Street, turned down East Lakeside Avenue and finished near the Cleveland Convention Center, where a stage was set up on the mall area that stretches three city blocks behind it.

Several businesses downtown, including the theaters at Playhouse Square, closed for the day because of the crowds, which were for the most part well behaved during the parade, although afterward, a woman was shot twice in the leg near Public Square, the police said, and a suspect was in custody. Before that, the biggest problem, according to the police, was children getting separated from their parents. The police posted several messages on Twitter alerting parents to their children’s whereabouts. Public transportation also experienced heavy backups as fans tried to make their way home.

Still, all over Northeast Ohio, the good feelings have failed to dissipate. The only documented discontent has been over the planned removal of the football-field-size banner of James, which has hung on the Sherwin-Williams building near the arena since James returned to Cleveland in 2014. The company plans to remove the banner on July 5 and replace it with a red-white-and-blue banner celebrating the company’s 150 years. After an uproar on social media and a petition signed by more than 7,000 people, the company said it would put the banner back up in time for next season.

James, 31, can become a free agent if he decides not to exercise the one-year, $24 million player’s option in his contract on June 29, but he told Cleveland.com before the parade that he was happy and had “no plans to go nowhere at this point.”

Richard Jefferson, 36, said after the finals victory that he planned to retire, but on Wednesday fans chanted, “One more year,” and he responded, “O.K.” Earlier in the day, he said on “The Dan Patrick Show” that his plans were not set in stone.

Meanwhile, Cavaliers merchandise is in heavy demand, and retailers like GV Art & Design, which is selling championship T-shirts with the slogans “Party Like It’s 1964” and “You Can’t Spell Miracle Without CLE,” cannot keep up. Lines have wrapped around the retail store in Lakewood, Ohio, since early Monday morning, and the doors have stayed open well past closing time. Business is even better online.

“Been sending out 500 a day,” the company wrote on Twitter. “We stopped today knowing today’s orders wouldn’t make it for the parade. Doing our best!”

The “Ultimate Warrior” T-shirt, from the Ohio-based clothing shop Homage, that James was wearing when he stepped off the plane, in a presumed dig at Golden State, sold out as well.

Record-breaking sales were also reported on Fanatics.com, NBAStore.com and the flagship NBA Store in New York. In the first 24 hours after Game 7, according to Fanatics, sales of Cavaliers championship merchandise doubled compared with the record set last year during the first 24 hours after the Warriors clinched.

Looking to extend the party, the Indians, who are in first place in the American League Central, said Tuesday that they would celebrate their neighbors’ success by selling $16 upper-deck tickets (based upon the Cavaliers’ slogan, “All In 216,” which references the city’s area code) for Wednesday night’s game against the Tampa Bay Rays. The Indians won, 6-1, to take six straight over all and 11 in a row at Progressive Field. Then on Thursday night, the nearby city of Akron is hosting a celebration for James, who grew up there.

“The Indians are next!” suddenly optimistic Cleveland fans yelled during the parade. Indeed, on a sun-soaked day on the shores of Lake Erie, the cloud of despair had been lifted.

HOUSTON —  It is the best of times, it is the worst of times. It is the spring of hope, it is the winter of despair. They may have the best basketball team in the country, and they definitely have the worst basketball team in the country.

But this is a tale of only one city.

With Villanova (33-5) routing Oklahoma, 95-51, Saturday night, the Wildcats are one victory from their first national championship since 1985. They have given residents of Philadelphia, just a few miles from their suburban campus, much to cheer about. At the same time, Philadelphia’s N.B.A. team, the 76ers, were 9-67 through Friday, which means that if they lose their final six games, they will achieve a share of the worst record in league history (along with the 1972-73 version of, yes, the 76ers).

“I was talking to my bookies in Vegas,” joked Charles Barkley, the Turner Sports analyst and former Sixer. “Villanova’s like a 2-point favorite over the Sixers.”

Villanova Coach Jay Wright, a native of nearby Bucks County, said Friday, a day before Villanova defeated Oklahoma in the national semifinals, that he thought the Sixers’ travails had helped rally the city around his team.

“Because of the recent last couple years,” he said, “they’ve been saying it all year; everybody’s been putting pressure on us, saying: ‘Hey, you guys are Philly’s hope. Do you feel the pressure?’ ”

Wright added: “There’s buildings in Philadelphia that have the lights going across the top: ‘Nova Final Four.’ It’s pretty cool. We would love to do it. We would love to do it for Philly.”

Villanova and the Sixers have been hardcourt opposites for a while. Over the last three seasons, including this one, Villanova had gone 95-13 heading into Saturday, winning roughly nine in 10 games, while the Sixers have lost about four of every five.

Since Wright took over at Villanova in 2001, the Sixers, now with three straight seasons of at least 63 losses, have had nine head coaches (including interims). Villanova’s roster is led by two four-year seniors, while the Sixers — using a strategy called the Process, which essentially involves tanking in order to accrue high draft picks — feature many younger players and several promising prospects, though as a result of injury, some of them have barely played.

As a result, an N.C.A.A. title by Villanova now would merit nothing less than a parade, argued Ed Rendell, a columnist for The Philadelphia Daily News who used to be Pennsylvania’s governor and, before that, the mayor of Philadelphia.

“People here love a parade; we were starved for a parade between ’83 and 2008,” he said Friday in an interview, referring to the Sixers’ last N.B.A. championship and the Phillies’ last World Series victory.

So much do Philadelphians love a parade, Rendell recalled, that there had been some discussion in 2004 about holding a Triple Crown parade for Smarty Jones, a thoroughbred horse born in nearby Chester County who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes before placing second in the Belmont Stakes.

The plan was ultimately nixed. “We’re going to put a horse on a flatbed truck?” Rendell said.

Two features of Philadelphia basketball life complicate Villanova’s hold over the city. Both relate to Philadelphia’s proud history as a basketball bastion, dating to the pre-N.B.A. team the SPHAs (which stood for South Philadelphia Hebrew Association), the Big 5 (Division I men’s teams that all played home games at the historic Palestra) and the original Philadelphia N.B.A. franchise, the Warriors (since moved to California, where they are the reigning N.B.A. champs and this year could set a record for victories in a season).

According to several observers, Philadelphia basketball fans are sophisticated and therefore not all quite as down on the Sixers as one might expect, given the team’s recent struggles.

“There are certainly a number of people that believe in what they’re doing,” said Dick Jerardi, a Philadelphia Daily News sportswriter since 1985. He added, “I don’t happen to be one of those people.”

Among the people who do is Ryan Arcidiacono, Villanova’s senior guard, who grew up near the city.

“Trust the Process. Trust the Process,” he said, repeating what has become a mantra (albeit a sometimes satirical one).

Arcidiacono expressed hope that two top injured Sixers prospects, Nerlens Noel and Joel Embiid, would return soon, and added of Providence’s graduating point guard who could go high in June’s draft, “Get Kris Dunn there, too.”

The other complication is that college basketball fans in the City of Brotherly Love do not always love their college basketball brothers. There are six Division I programs in the city, and while Jerardi averred that Villanova had the largest fan base — one capable of selling out the Sixers’ large Wells Fargo Center for regular-season games — that did not mean that fans of Temple and LaSalle would just roll over for the Final Four squad.

“My hope is that they appreciate what Villanova is accomplishing,” Phil Martelli, the coach of another Philadelphia team, St. Joseph’s, said of the rival fan bases. “I don’t think it’s necessary for them to cheer for Villanova.”

He added: “Philadelphia’s a basketball town. The other thing Philadelphia is is very parochial. So if your team is St. Joseph’s, you root for St. Joseph’s. If it’s Villanova, you root for Villanova.”

Darryl Reynolds, a Villanova junior who hails from Philadelphia, displayed native wisdom (and knowledge of geography) when asked if he felt the whole city was behind his team.

“It’s huge for everybody in the Philly area,” he said. “Obviously, the Villanova area and Radnor Township, a bit more.”