SEATTLE — It was major local news when the new City Council was seated here in January with a 5-to-4 majority of women.

It was even bigger news last week, when that new majority worked together for the first time — rejecting, in a 5-to-4 decision along gender lines, a land-use deal that would have paved the way for a sports arena intended to help lure major league professional basketball back to Seattle.

The resulting backlash was ugly, and swift.

In hundreds of email messages and social media posts, the female Council members were attacked by people — practically all apparently men — who said they lacked intelligence and an understanding of the importance of sports because they are women. One Twitter poster simply used a four-letter graphic insult to define them. Another man, in a signed email, suggested they should all kill themselves and “rot in hell.” Other critics, in less violent but equally demeaning terms, addressed them as “ladies,” who should “go back to the kitchen.”

In a city where liberal views are all but assumed and sports passions run deep, the attacks quickly became as big an issue — or at least just as politically complicated — as the arena plan itself.

Mayor Ed Murray, who supported the arena proposal, and Chris Hansen, the businessman who had been seeking the deal, both gave an unsolicited defense of the five women at a news conference on Wednesday — two days after the vote. But that, in turn, caused more controversy, with some people resenting the appearance that women under attack had needed men to stand up for them.

On Friday, the Council member who cast the decisive arena vote, Lorena González — and who also received the brunt of the hate mail — said in her first interview since the storm erupted that she appreciated Mr. Murray’s and Mr. Hansen’s support and believed it honorable, but in all due respect, she said, it was also not necessary.

Women were a majority on the nine-member City Council through most of the 1990s, but since then until this year, as through most of the city’s political history, they were a minority voice.

“When we are dealing with sexism, we have to understand that we need to give women opportunity to lead and to stand on their own two feet because that’s what we do every day, and while I appreciate the intentions to defend us, I would have certainly appreciated some consultation before the statements were made,” said Ms. González, who before her election last year worked as a civil rights lawyer for a decade in Seattle, defending women in workplace sexual harassment cases.

“The fact that it was five women who tipped the vote to prevent this land use action from occurring, I think, just scratched the surface of what we know is a still unfortunately very, very strong sentiment of sexism out there,” she said in a telephone interview. “My hope is that the men who are engaging in this vitriolic behavior will understand that it needs to end.”

The women on the Council, in their comments before the vote, all said that financial arguments had swayed them. They said that giving over city resources for the project without any promise that a National Basketball Association team would come — and with recent comments by league officials that no new franchise was likely — made the arena terms questionable, and that another location, already owned by the city, should be considered.

Seattle is home to the Seahawks of the National Football League and the Mariners of Major League Baseball, but it has not had an N.B.A. team since 2008, when the Supersonics left town for Oklahoma City to become the Thunder.

Seattle, by various measures — not least that fans of the Seahawks can trigger with their roars and stomping feet actual small earthquakes in the area around that team’s football stadium — is a sports-crazed town. And being without an N.B.A. franchise for years has also been a blow to Seattle’s image as a major city.

But Ms. González, who said that at least one of the emails to her had been referred to the Seattle police for investigation, said the arena vote had also exposed other fault lines.

“This particular issue will ultimately calm down, at least for a little bit,” Ms. González said, “but I think the bigger question is: ‘What does it say about us as a city?’ ”

TAMPA, Fla. — Russell Wilson looked very much at home in pinstripes Monday, when he suited up to take batting practice and ground balls with the Yankees.

Wilson, the Seattle Seahawks quarterback and former minor league baseball player, whose rights were acquired by the Yankees during the off-season, smoothly fielded grounders at second base and did not look out of place while taking swings in a group with the Yankees’ biggest sluggers: Aaron Judge, Giancarlo Stanton, Gary Sanchez and Greg Bird.

Wilson muscled six balls over the wall with his 33 ½-inch, 31-ounce Russell Wilson-model bat — including on a last-pitch situational drill: two outs, bottom of the ninth.

“I think he’s been out here early taking swings, because he took a couple out to left, and he took one out to center,” Judge said. “I think he’s been practicing.”

Wilson, though, insisted the only work he had done was some soft-toss drills over the weekend.

“I’ve been doing it my whole life ever since I was 2, 3, 4 years old,” said Wilson, who participated in spring training drills in 2013 and 2014 with the Texas Rangers, the team that previously held his rights. “This is what I know. This is what I’ve known my whole life. Now, I couldn’t just go step on the basketball court. But baseball — it’s like riding a bike.”

Wilson plans to spend the week working out with the Yankees, but will not play in any exhibition games for fear of injury — though he is not prohibited from doing so by the Seahawks.

If Wilson moved easily among the Yankees on Monday — he also addressed the team in a meeting — there are a number of Yankees who have enough football bona fides to find some common ground. Infielder Jace Peterson was a free safety at McNeese State, and the third-base coach Phil Nevin was a freshman all-American at Cal State Fullerton.

Then there were others who could have played in college: Pitcher C. C. Sabathia signed a letter of intent to play tight end at Hawaii; Jacoby Ellsbury, who returned six kickoffs for touchdowns in high school, was recruited by Oregon; and Sonny Gray was an accomplished quarterback growing up in Tennessee, where he had several scholarship offers before sticking with baseball at Vanderbilt.

But the two Yankees who most likely had the best chance to forge a career in football are the two who look the part — Stanton and Judge. Stanton is 6 feet 6 inches, 245 pounds, and Judge is 6-foot-7, 282 pounds. Both were star receivers in high school — coincidentally, each wore No. 2 — before dropping football in favor of a baseball career.

“They’d definitely be tight ends,” Wilson said.

“We have a running joke, me and Jimmy Graham, how he looks like Aaron Judge and how Judge looks like him,” Wilson added, referring to Seattle’s five-time Pro Bowl tight end. “I was telling Aaron earlier, Jimmy, I think, wore his jersey for Halloween.”

While Stanton was an elite baseball prospect at Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, Calif., he did not catch the eye of college football recruiters until his senior season — when in the season opener he caught a touchdown pass and scored on the ensuing 2-point conversion to win the game, leaping above a defender for both balls.

Stanton took a recruiting visit to Southern California, attending a football game and having lunch over the weekend with Pete Carroll, then the U.S.C. football coach and now Wilson’s coach with the Seahawks. Carroll also came to watch Stanton play basketball.

“Mike was an excellent prospect in high school, and we knew he had a ton of potential,” Carroll said via email through a team spokesman. “We truly saw him as a multisport athlete, which is rare at that level. He was so good at both sports that we would have wanted him to play both if he came to ‘SC.’”

In his two years at Notre Dame — he transferred to the private school after spending two years at Verdugo Hills, a public school — Stanton played with at least 10 others who earned college scholarships. One of Stanton’s more memorable matchups came against one of Wilson’s teammates — the loquacious Richard Sherman.

What did Stanton remember about it?

“I just remember them kicking our butts,” said Stanton, whose team had its 35-game winning streak ended by Sherman’s Dominguez High School in a 41-14 route in the CIF-Southern Section Division III championship game. “They wore us down.”

“They were talking crap, but I didn’t put it to just Sherman,” added Stanton, who was sometimes matched up against Sherman. “They were all talking stuff because they were the inner-city school and we were the privileged school. I went to public school, too, so I know what they were feeling.”

Brandon Huffman, the national recruiting editor for 24/7 Sports, recalled how fast and fluid Stanton looked. “It was like he glided downfield,” Huffman said. “It didn’t look like he was that fast, but he had long strides. It was like watching a center fielder who knows how much ground he has to cover.”

Judge, like Stanton, was a three-sport standout, playing football, basketball and baseball in Linden, Calif., a Central Valley farming community just east of Stockton.

While Judge received recruiting interest from Notre Dame, Washington and U.C.L.A., he made it clear to most schools that he was interested in playing only baseball. A few, such as Eastern Michigan and Portland State, offered to let him play both, but Judge thought playing two sports — along with the academic challenges of college — would be too much, so he focused on baseball at Fresno State.

“I thought if I could find a place where I could just play baseball, that would be great,” he said.

Further dampening the idea of playing football was the fact that he might not have played receiver. Judge, who was a Cal fan — in part because his older brother John went to school there — attended a football camp in Berkeley before his senior season.

“They knew I enjoyed football, but that I had baseball on the mind,” Judge said. “The receiver coach said, ‘I like you, but we’ll bulk you up and put you at tight end, to be honest.’”

If that idea did not appeal to Judge at the time, he did not seem put off that Wilson viewed him as a tight end, figuring that Wilson would make him look good with a few passes.

Wilson did not have a football with him, but said he would by the end of the week. Just as he is showing off what he might do with a baseball bat in his hands, Judge and Stanton might be able to show what they can do with a football in theirs.

“You might catch us out on a backfield running some routes,” Judge said with a smile.

INSIDE PITCH

Outfielder Clint Frazier was found to have a concussion. He had complained of fogginess and a headache after crashing into the outfield wall twice in Saturday’s game against Pittsburgh. Frazier said Monday that he felt fine and would ride a stationary bike on Tuesday to determine if exercise would cause the symptoms to return.

James Harden had 36 points, 11 assists and 8 rebounds on Monday as the Houston Rockets held off the visiting Nets, 122-118, for their seventh straight win.

Brooklyn trailed for much of the game until Joe Harris’s layup tied the score 118-118 with less than 40 seconds remaining. Eric Gordon gave Houston a 2-point lead with 11.9 seconds left. The Rockets then forced a turnover on the ensuing inbound pass, and Gordon hit two more from the line for the final margin.

Brook Lopez scored 26 points and Sean Kilpatrick added 17 for the Nets. Gordon had 24 points and was 6 for 10 on 3-pointers.

Arizona receiver Michael Floyd was arrested on charges including driving under the influence after the police said he was found unconscious behind the wheel of his running vehicle in Scottsdale.

Floyd was also charged with failure to obey an officer and obstructing a roadway after his car was spotted an intersection just before 3 a.m., the police said.

Floyd has 33 catches for 446 yards and four touchdowns this season. Cardinals Coach Bruce Arians said he was determining “what our options are going forward.”

MCKNIGHT FUNERAL HELD Five former teammates served as pallbearers at the funeral of Joe McKnight, the former Jets running back who was shot to death on Dec. 1 in suburban New Orleans.

McKnight played for the Jets from 2010 to 2013. His former teammates Sione Po’uha, Antonio Cromartie, Bart Scott, Willie Colon and D’Brickashaw Ferguson were pallbearers, along with LenDale White, who played at Southern California before McKnight attended.

Lane Kiffin, the offensive coordinator at Alabama, agreed to become the head coach at Florida Atlantic, according to Crimson Tide Coach Nick Saban.

Kiffin was an assistant coach at Southern California before he was hired to coach the Oakland Raiders in 2007. He went 5-15 with the Raiders before being fired. Kiffin returned to college football in 2009, going 7-6 in his lone season at Tennessee and 28-15 in parts of four seasons with the Trojans.

PLAYER CHARGED IN KILLING Jovieair Kennedy, a member of the Western Michigan basketball team, was charged with murder and armed robbery in the shooting death of a fellow student.

Kennedy, 20, was denied bond at his arraignment in the death of Jacob Jones, 19, at an off-campus apartment in Kalamazoo on Thursday. The authorities said Kennedy killed Jones while robbing him of a cellphone and money.

Buzunesh Deba was formally named the women’s winner of the 2014 Boston Marathon two months after Rita Jeptoo was stripped of the title and banned from international competition for four years for doping.

Deba, of Ethiopia, was also recognized as the current course record-holder. Her blistering finish of 2 hours 19 minutes 59 seconds was the fastest women’s race in Boston’s 121-year history, besting the previous mark of 2:20:43 set in 2002 by Margaret Okayo of Kenya.

OKLAHOMA CITY —  Hal Smith first met Kevin Durant four years ago, when a mutual acquaintance informed him that the basketball superstar was thinking about opening a restaurant.

Smith, 69, runs a restaurant group based in Norman, Okla., that employs about 7,000 people across seven states. From their very first talk, the two men established an easy rapport, and within a year and a half they opened KD’s, a sleek spot in downtown Oklahoma City serving Southern comfort food.

But while the restaurant has done well, in recent months a matter of basketball business has been prickling Smith’s mind. After spending nine seasons with the same franchise, Durant will become a free agent this summer. Smith, therefore, has been forced to ponder the possibility that his famous business partner, the face of their food brand, could leave the city.

“I think about it every day,” Smith said, laughing. “What am I going to do? Are we going to keep it as KD’s? Are we going to change the name if he leaves?”

Smith’s concerns are a microcosm of the wider anxiety that has taken hold of the populace here. The Oklahoma City Thunder, fresh off another excellent regular season, are locked in heated battle with the San Antonio Spurs in the Western Conference semifinals. And in the background every day has been the whispering of an unavoidable question: Could these be Durant’s final days in the team’s blue and orange uniform?

Tension is inevitable when the possibility looms that a star athlete might switch teams. Yet the stakes somehow feel higher, more profound, than normal in Oklahoma City, where Durant and the Thunder are so tightly interwoven with the city’s identity.

The players’ likenesses decorate buildings and storefronts downtown, and the franchise’s influence is plainly discernible in the city’s small-business nomenclature: Thunder Donuts, Thunder Nails, Thunder Bail Bonds, Thunder Cab, Thunder Vapor, Thunder Ducts, Thunder Concrete Plumbing Service, Thunder Towing.

“We’ve got this reputation as an up-and-coming city, and a lot of that is tied around the Thunder, and the success of the team is obviously directly tied to Kevin Durant,” said Curtis Fitzpatrick, a morning host on the WWLS the Sports Animal radio station. “So, yeah, there’s lots of anxiety. There’s nervous energy. A lot of people don’t talk about it. But there’s no avoiding it on the horizon.

“There’s a whole local economy based in oil and gas,” Fitzpatrick added. “But there’s a Kevin Durant economy, too.”

Durant’s stature in the area has been growing since 2008, when the Seattle SuperSonics, who drafted him the year before, relocated to Oklahoma City. The restaurant, in which Durant owns a 25 percent share, symbolizes the roots he has established. When KD’s was still being conceptualized, Durant sent Smith on a three-city tour — from Miami to Los Angeles to Washington — to sample seven of his favorite restaurants. Even now, Smith said, Durant evaluates new dishes before they are added to the menu.

The restaurant itself is situated just a few blocks from the team’s arena. Memorabilia from Durant’s career dots its walls. At a news conference at the start of the restaurant’s construction, Durant elicited laughter when he said, “If somebody has a complaint, I’ll try to go in the back in the kitchen and help fix it, if I can.”

Oklahoma City has never seemed like an obvious place for a major professional sports franchise, but Durant, 27, who lives downtown, has fit in here about as well as any global sports superstar could. Anyone asked to elucidate his local standing will often point to the $1 million donation he made to the American Red Cross in 2013 the day after a tornado devastated Moore, an Oklahoma City suburb. Durant, who was in Minneapolis at the time, had Smith deliver the check to the local Red Cross office.

“People were crying that day,” Smith said, “and so thankful.”

Early in his career, Durant’s ingenuous demeanor endeared him to fans. There was the time during the 2011 N.B.A. lockout when Durant, after connecting on Twitter with an Oklahoma State graduate student named George Overbey, drove an hour to Stillwater to play in an intramural flag football game for Overbey’s fraternity team. Video of the game, and the huge crowd that gathered to watch it, made the rounds in the blogosphere the following day.

“He was locked in,” said Overbey, whose squad, despite winning, was disqualified from the tournament for fielding Durant, the most obvious of ringers. “He didn’t care about all the girls there, the people who came to watch. We were talking strategy in the car the whole time on the way to the game.”

For Overbey, it was a small glimpse of the competitiveness that has helped Durant collect seven All-Star selections, four scoring titles and the 2014 Most Valuable Player Award.

Durant’s public image has morphed a bit as he has matured. A little over three years ago, the ad agency Wieden & Kennedy devised a campaign for Nike titled “KD is Not Nice,” a quirky effort to show that Durant, while generally modest and shy, did not lack fire on the court.

Indeed, he has shown an ornery side, at times. He bristled at reporters at the All-Star Game last year, for example, telling them, “Y’all not my friends.” During the first round of the postseason this year, he was retroactively issued a technical for deliberately elbowing a Dallas Mavericks player.

Regardless, the support for him in Oklahoma City has hardly ever wavered. Two years ago, when The Oklahoman printed the headline “Mr. Unreliable” in reference to Durant’s struggles during a playoff series against the Memphis Grizzlies, the local backlash was severe enough to prompt an apology from the newspaper. The sports editor said in a statement then that the paper had “failed” its readership, calling the headline “overstated and unduly harsh.”

“He could be the mayor, if he wanted,” said Nick Collison, Durant’s teammate since the Seattle days.

Durant has quashed inquiries about his future plans whenever the subject has arisen. To the uninformed outsider — that is, possibly, everyone besides Durant — the possibilities seem multitudinous to the point that discussing them feels like a pointless pursuit. Still, it can be entertaining: Reports have hinted at interest from elite teams like the Golden State Warriors and the Spurs. Some wonder whether Durant would move to Los Angeles, where he often spends his summers. The idea that Durant might prefer the Eastern Conference, where the playoff road tends to be more forgiving, seems intriguing, too.

People here are praying he stays. But many also insist that if a separation were to occur, it would be mostly amicable — nothing resembling the nastiness that occurred after LeBron James left the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2010.

“I can tell you people won’t be burning his jersey in Oklahoma the way people did for LeBron in Cleveland,” Overbey said. “People will be devastated. They’ll be sad. But they have too much respect for what he’s done for the city.”

For now, then, all people can do is wait until free agency starts on July 1. Smith, the restaurateur, said he hoped to sit down with Durant next month to brainstorm possible additions to the menu. He also wants to discuss plans to open a KD’s in Austin, Tex., where they might reformat the restaurant as an upscale steakhouse.

In an ideal world, Smith said, the Oklahoma City location would keep its name no matter what Durant decides this summer. But he will have to wait and see.

“I think the city loves him enough not to hold a grudge,” Smith said. “But if he leaves, and people are disgruntled, I’ll have to make another decision, and I don’t have that decision in my mind just yet.”

It’s easy enough to review the past year in sports. Many have done so. The real challenge lies in predicting the coming year, 2017. That’s where we can help. Nightly visions appear to us in the form of bold, 72-point type headlines. (The printed page will never die, another prescient forecast.) We then jot down these communications, relay them and ruin the start of the new year. You may find these are not happy prophecies, but please don’t disparage the messenger.

Here’s what we guarantee will happen in 2017, unless something else happens instead:

Team that wins national college football championship is placed on N.C.A.A. probation during poignant, postgame ceremony.

Roger Federer is still poetry in motion at Australian Open. Problem is, his poems fade in the fifth stanza.

Roger Clemens fails to get votes necessary for Baseball Hall of Fame, hurls bat shard at Mike Piazza’s plaque in Cooperstown.

At inauguration, Donald J. Trump promises to make Cleveland Browns great again. This time, even backers say he has gone too far.

Women’s national soccer team finally agrees to new collective bargaining agreement when U.S. Soccer promises to pay women the same bonus money for winning matches that men receive for losing.

Patriots capture Super Bowl, deflating Cowboys. Championship rings ordered in shape of Bill Belichick’s giant brain.

Six hours of tickle therapy fails to produce a single smile from José Mourinho, dour soccer coach of Manchester United.

Tony Romo begins off-season training regimen, patiently plays second fiddle for the New York Philharmonic.

George Karl writes new book, bashing LeBron James, pistachio ice cream and Israeli settlements in the West Bank.

Rex Ryan is hired as defensive coordinator of the Jets because we just can’t get enough of the guy.

Joey Logano stops for gas, finishes exactly where he started after more than three hours, yet somehow wins Daytona 500.

The Wilpons ask Yoenis Cespedes for a loan, just for a few months, to cover costs of repaving Citi Field parking lot.

Mavs are 18-50. Turns out Mark Cuban isn’t such a genius, after all.

Because of sagging attendance in Florida, baseball’s commissioner, Rob Manfred, announces that Grapefruit League game between Yankees and Phillies will determine home-field advantage in World Series. Unless game ends in tie.

International Olympic Committee gets tough, bars all Russian male golfers from participating in next Olympics.

N.C.A.A. can’t think of 68 teams worth inviting to men’s basketball tournament, so it places Villanova in three brackets.

Baseball season opens. Cubs win first 10 games and are suddenly not so lovable anymore.

Louisville captures N.C.A.A. men’s basketball championship, placed on probation in emotional ceremony while cutting down net.

Geno Auriemma furious that UConn women won third quarter of N.C.A.A. basketball final by only 5 points.

Tiger Woods misses cut at Masters, but says it’s a process.

Failing to recognize paradox, Mets Manager Terry Collins orders players not to reach second base because team’s average with runners in scoring position last year was worst in league.

Practical Joke wins Kentucky Derby. Just kidding.

New York Rangers are eliminated from playoffs again. Madison Square Garden retires Joey Kocur’s jersey from 1994 to make everyone forget how 76 of the last 77 seasons ended.

Yankees hold Derek Jeter Day to make everyone forget they’re already eight games behind Boston.

French Open announces new schedule of matches that will not interfere with le déjeuner or le dîner. Also, two-week vacation between quarterfinal and semifinal rounds.

Phil Jackson walks away from Knicks job after Madison Square Garden fails to build him an unmodified, triangular corner office.

Barcelona loses Champions League title game in Cardiff when Lionel Messi’s penalty kick in shootout sails into Bristol Channel.

Columbus captures Stanley Cup. John Tortorella sprays Champagne in eyes of every idiot reporter.

Warriors lose to Cavs in N.B.A. finals, begin recruiting Blake Griffin and Chris Paul.

Woods misses cut at United States Open, says it’s still a process.

Yankees hand out Reggie Jackson bobblehead dolls, fall 12 games behind Boston.

Celtics use Nets’ No. 1 pick to draft Lonzo Ball, who is compared to Jason Kidd, who also escaped Brooklyn.

Serena Williams wins Wimbledon title, loses count of exactly how many that is. Sadly, Bud Collins is no longer around to tell her.

N.F.L. bans all touchdowns through the air or on punt returns because they are considered a form of taunting. Sideline grins may not exceed an upturn of more than 0.3 centimeters.

Woods misses cut at British Open, eats processed cheese.

Chris Froome packs picnic basket for Tour de France stage, loses valuable time in mountains.

Provocative ad for meldonium, featuring Maria Sharapova, stops traffic around Times Square.

Woods misses cut at P.G.A. Championship, breaks process over knee, throws process into water hazard.

After two-year study, crack mathematics panel at M.I.T. fails to decode N.H.L. or FedEx Cup standings.

Bartolo Colon, playing first base for Braves, knocks 20th homer of season.

N.F.L. installs replay policy that mandates official review of every gain of more than 2 yards. Games begin at 11 a.m. to accommodate five-hour length.

Novak Djokovic, one point from title, retires during final to cede United States Open championship to Rafael Nadal. “I just want to be loved,” Djokovic says. Fans still don’t cheer.

Unable to reach a decision, I.O.C. tells Budapest, Los Angeles and Paris to share the 2024 Summer Games. This should not be a problem, committee believes, because all three cities feature airports.

Organizers begin dismantling roof over Ashe Stadium after another year without rain. Should be a little cheaper to take it down than it was to build it.

Tom Brady, now 40, figures it’s about time to tell Belichick exactly what he really thinks of him. Surprisingly, Belichick does not take this well.

Mets finish season with 12 men on disabled list, including Mr. Met.

United States national men’s soccer team wins, 1-0, on dramatic goal in Trinidad and qualifies for World Cup on final day. Team has made tremendous progress since 1989, when it did exactly the same thing.

Cubs sweep Boston in World Series. Cub fans are really becoming obnoxious. Please, anybody but the Cubs in 2018.

Peyton Manning and Aaron Rodgers get into a minor car accident outside stadium, only to discover neither one actually has insurance.

New York City Marathon becomes triathlon after Willis Avenue Bridge swings open before lead pack arrives.

N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell rebrands concussions as “cerebrum razzle-dazzles.” Carrie Underwood drops new song with that title.

I.O.C. still getting tough: Russian male golfers allowed back into Olympics, but on probation.

Rutgers football team falls to 0-9 in conference play, relegated to Little Ten.

November listed by Betfair as early favorite to win Most Boring Sports Month of Year Award at 2017 ESPYs.

Condoleezza Rice, forgetting current role, threatens to send troops into Wisconsin unless Barry Alvarez changes his rankings on college football selection day.

Brian Cashman burns fingers in Hot Stove League, signs nobody of note.

Kristaps Porzingis finally realizes he is too good to be a Knick and asks the team president Spike Lee for a trade.

Patriots clinch A.F.C. East title despite inexplicable benching of Brady since October.

Belichick’s giant brain figures out N.H.L. and FedEx Cup standings, but won’t make findings public.

These predictions for 2017 are found to be extraordinarily accurate. Great clamor for more.

CHICAGO — After years of protests by Native Americans and pressure from the N.C.A.A., the University of Illinois in 2007 retired its mascot, Chief Illiniwek, who wore a feathered headdress and beaded buckskin to dance while the band played. The end of the chief, a university official said at the time, was a chance to “move our institution forward.”

Yet more than a decade later, an unofficial Chief Illiniwek still makes appearances around campus. Anti-chief protesters blocked a homecoming parade last October. And just last week, a professor opposed to the mascot was arrested at the campus basketball arena after searching in a bathroom for Chief Illiniwek.

Major League Baseball announced this week that the Cleveland Indians would stop using the team’s cartoonish Chief Wahoo logo on uniforms next year, but similar moves by professional teams and colleges around the country in recent years have rarely proved to be simple or absolute. Decisions to end the use of Native American imagery out of concerns about perpetuating racist and offensive stereotypes have run up against protracted battles with alumni groups and fans, who say they are attached to their team’s symbols and often insist that they are intended to honor indigenous people.

State legislators once tried to block the University of North Dakota from dropping its Fighting Sioux nickname during a bitter, yearslong fight over the matter. At Marquette University in Milwaukee, trustees were widely mocked for trying at one point to nickname their teams “the Gold” in an effort to calm alumni who were demanding that an old name, the Warriors, be restored.

And here in Illinois, Chief Illiniwek has retained a stealth role on campus for years, neither officially sanctioned nor altogether gone. Though most of today’s undergraduates were in elementary school when he was formally retired, the chief has maintained all his power to impassion and infuriate.

“I think the people within the university were hoping the issue would just go away,” said Ivan Dozier, a former Chief Illiniwek and a board member of the Honor the Chief Society, which wants to restore the mascot’s official role. “I think that’s made things worse on campus.”

Mr. Dozier said he and the current Chief Illiniwek were in a bathroom last week at the State Farm Center, the basketball arena on the Champaign campus, during the most recent and most peculiar flare-up in the long-running debate.

Jay Rosenstein, a professor of media and cinema studies at the university, who once made an award-winning documentary about opposition to native mascots, had been scouring the arena trying to find and film the latest unofficial Chief Illiniwek. When Mr. Rosenstein recognized Mr. Dozier and saw him heading toward a bathroom, he followed him inside, figuring Chief Illiniwek might also be there.

“I was done with the urinal, headed over to the sink, and at some point I look up and there’s Jay Rosenstein at the end of the bathroom with his camera rolling,” Mr. Dozier said in an interview.

They argued. Security guards arrived. Soon Mr. Rosenstein, 57, was handcuffed and hauled to jail by a campus police officer.

“I was only a couple steps in — never even advanced past the sink area,” said Mr. Rosenstein, who was jailed on suspicion of unauthorized video recording but released the next day when the county prosecutor declined to file charges.

Julia Rietz, the state’s attorney of Champaign County, said in an email that her office had in the past pressed charges in cases that involved cameras hidden in bathrooms or locker rooms “to record unknowing victims for the offenders’ sexual gratification.” Ms. Rietz added, “While the arrest was technically appropriate, there was no evidence of such intent here.”

Mr. Rosenstein insists he never filmed anyone undressed, and said he was acting as an investigative journalist. He said he wanted to see if university employees were helping the chief to appear at the basketball game, which, he said, would be “a very big story.”

The incident has added fuel to a larger fight that seems far from over. Mr. Rosenstein was placed on administrative leave pending an internal investigation, prompting dueling calls for him to be fired and to be reinstated. Chief Illiniwek supporters touted plans to “stand together and show how many of us there really are” at a basketball game later this month.

“There will be some discourse at that event,” said Raneem Shamseldin, the student body president, who helped organize the protest of the chief during the homecoming parade.

“That’s not a threat. That is a promise.”

Though changing a Native American nickname or mascot almost always sets off debate, some institutions move on. At the University of Louisiana at Monroe, where sports teams known as the Indians were renamed as the Warhawks more than a decade ago, the issue long ago faded from the headlines. Lisa Miller, an administrator, said the new name was popular and that some current students might even be unaware of the old one.

“It’s difficult for a university to have a mascot that you can’t 100 percent embrace,” Ms. Miller said. “You’re always being cautious about doing things that may be offensive to others.”

Suzan Shown Harjo, a Native American activist who has sought to get such nicknames and mascots changed all over the country, said Illinois might have had more success if it had picked a replacement mascot and dropped its nickname: the Fighting Illini. Instead, there is no official mascot. The team logo, once an image of the chief’s face, is now an orange letter “I.”

She said the Cleveland Indians should also have gone further by changing the team name instead of just removing Chief Wahoo from uniforms.

Here in Illinois, the chief’s vehement opponents and steadfast defenders seem to agree on one thing: They believe the university’s leaders have repeatedly failed to act decisively on Chief Illiniwek, making matters worse. A university spokeswoman did not respond to multiple requests for an interview with an administrator.

Mr. Dozier, the former Chief Illiniwek, said everyone ought to be able to air their views more openly on campus. He said some people on both sides of the debate had become “more passionate” and “more ignorant” about the chief in recent years — a potentially “dangerous combination,” he said.

Mr. Rosenstein, the suspended professor, said Chief Illiniwek and its history were like “a bullet wound to the University of Illinois.” He called for the naming of a new mascot.

“A bullet wound can’t heal if you just put a Band-Aid over it,” he said. “You’ve got to go in there. You’ve got to dig around.”