Greetings, Yalies!

As someone who has spent way too much of his dwindling mental capacity over the years obsessing over Duke basketball, our version of Skull and Bones that everyone gets to join, I can’t tell you how uplifting it is to find Yale, of all teams, as our opponent in Saturday’s game.

Here we were all ready to play Baylor, a team from a town best known for David Koresh and the Branch Davidian siege, and instead we got the only matchup in the tournament in which players with names, faces and G.P.A.s like Marshall Plumlee’s and Grayson Allen’s would be right at home.

No, we weren’t founded in 1701, but we have a fair amount in common with Yale. Duke’s president, Richard H. Brodhead, has three degrees from Yale and for more than a decade was the dean of Yale College. New Haven and Durham, N.C., once widely known as dumps, have emerged as somehow cool, to the astonishment of alumni (I graduated when dinosaurs still walked, in 1971) who knew them then. Like us, you know what it’s like to share a state with a big public university that has an excellent basketball program. We would advise you on what it’s like to be overshadowed by that other program, except that we don’t know.

It’s true that Yale is a somewhat ambiguous draw. Yes, on paper, playing a 12th seed from the Ivy League is more promising than facing a No. 5 from the mighty Big 12 (which has only 10 teams, an indication that no one there went to Yale). But if we lose — definitely not impossible! Really! We’re incredibly thin, and Yale is legit — the game will join our tournament disasters at the hands of Lehigh and Mercer in the Duke Haters Hall of Fame. If we’re going to lose, much better to lose to Baylor.

On the other hand, how cool to play a team from a university perceived as more privileged, full of itself, entitled and snooty (and white) than we are. The game is already being viewed as basketball’s version of the Iran-Iraq War. Seriously, it’s part of our brand, but being hated as your default position gets really old really fast. Welcome to our world, and many thanks for taking some of the incoming fire.

Yale, it turns out, has had its hoops moments. Who could forget 1957, when John J. Lee Jr., out of Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, led Yale to the tournament? And Chris Dudley, bless his heart, played for 16 years in the N.B.A.

That said, we know it has been a while, 54 years in fact, since Yale has been in the tournament, and that this year was the first time it had won an N.C.A.A. tournament game. And Yale’s Payne Whitney Gymnasium is far enough from the main campus that some students have never even ventured inside it, so we know that many Yalies don’t entirely get this basketball thing.

With that in mind, we humbly submit some guidance for proper behavior and salubrious spectating at the Check Your Privilege Invitational on Saturday. And good luck. But not too much good luck. This matters more to us than to you.

1. Basketball is just like squash, crew, lacrosse and hockey, sports you’re more familiar with, except that it’s played mostly by really tall people who run back and forth along a 94-foot-long “court” and try to throw an orange round ball through a hoop. (The court is not the same as the one in Washington that politicians argue about placing Yale Law grads on.)

2. We know you’re new at this, but as in war, you don’t want to make yourself an obvious target. So that guy shown on TV during the Baylor game wearing the retro canary yellow sweater with the big Y on it? We don’t care how clever and meta you think it is — please don’t go there. And the girl wearing the cap disparaging Harvard? We know you’re better than the rest of us, but unless you’re playing Harvard or it’s the day of the Game, which no one else in the world gives a sliver of a rat’s behind about, just give it a rest, O.K.?

3. Screen-and-roll is not any of that stuff they talk about at the Yale School of Drama.

4. March Madness refers to this tournament you’ve deigned to be a part of, not to Brutus’s stabbing of Caesar, but we’ll assume you know that.

5. No, it’s not P.C., but your coach, players and bench are allowed to berate the refs in only one language.

6. When they call a charge, there’s no acute accent over the “e.”

7. A proper pregame meal is pulled pork barbecue, not caviar and morels.

8. You might see exuberant young men taking a pair of scissors to the basketball net after a game. Fear not: This is not mere vandalism. To put it in terms you might appreciate, think of it as a modern echo of the stolen tress in Alexander Pope’s “The Rape of the Lock,” or of Theseus cutting his own hair at Delphi — a trivial act as a metaphor for something greater. Or better yet, just get over it.

9. It’s Krzyzewski. Thirty-six years later, we can’t spell it either.

10. Sure, do your obnoxious “Safety School” chant if it makes you feel better.

Like most young transplants to New York, Caris LeVert is alternately stunned and captivated by his new city. The difference is that Mr. LeVert, 22, who grew up in Columbus, Ohio, takes it all in from his 45th-floor apartment in Downtown Brooklyn. Last June, Mr. LeVert, a star basketball player at Michigan, was selected by the Indiana Pacers as a first-round pick in the N.B.A. draft; two weeks later, he was traded to the Brooklyn Nets. Mr. LeVert sat out the beginning of the season with a foot injury and did not suit up until December; since then, he has averaged 4.3 points and 15.4 minutes a game in his first 13 games. The Nets have a busy schedule, but whenever Mr. LeVert has downtime, he likes to explore his new hometown.

 PROTOCOL I’m a rookie basketball player, so a lot of my life revolves around the team. If the team is at home, and we don’t have a game that night, I get up and go straight to our training facility, down in Sunset Park. Until recently, I was putting in part-time practices because of my foot, but I also have to do a lot of rehab with our trainers and doctors. So I’m usually the first one there and the last one out. Fortunately, the Nets have cooks and dietitians on site, so I can get a good breakfast. I like the usual stuff, bacon, eggs, fruit, toast.

PLAYGROUND GAMES My apartment looks west over Lower Manhattan down to Governors Island, and then north toward Queens and the Bronx. Before I moved here, I’d only been to New York a few times, usually for basketball tournaments, so I didn’t exactly have time to get out. Now I can explore a bit. I just found the Cage, in the West Village, which is famous for pickup basketball games. Sometimes I just stop by places like that, talk to guys on the court. I love how basketball can be this really competitive thing, but also it can be a couple of friends shooting hoops on the playground.

WOW FACTOR When I have a few hours, I like to go check out a part of the city I’ve never seen. I’d heard great things about the High Line. I guess I’m not the first person to say, “Oh, wow, that’s cool,” but it’s still a great idea: a park in the sky.

 STYLE POINTERS I’m big into fashion, so I try to stop in SoHo or the meatpacking district occasionally. There are so many options, I try to not even focus on specific brands when shopping in the city. One of the things I love the most about New York is the heightened sense of fashion. In college, you just threw on some sweats and headed out. Here, every time you step out the door you’re making a statement. One thing I do like is Flight Club, the shoe store on Broadway. I’m a huge fan of Air Jordans.

FAN IN A SPORTS TOWN I grew up wanting to play football; I didn’t start playing basketball until high school. I still love watching it. If I can, I’ll find a sports bar or somewhere to watch a game — drinking lemonade, of course. I love that New York is an all-around sports town.

SEAFOOD SPOTS My mom is a retired teacher, so she comes to visit a lot. She loves to go out and see the city. We go out to dinner; we go shopping together. She loves seafood, and New York has way better seafood options than central Ohio, so we take advantage of that.

TEAM CENTRAL If there’s no game, and we don’t have to travel, I usually come back home and relax. I hear when the Nets first moved to Brooklyn, most of the players still lived in New Jersey. But now pretty much the entire team lives in Brooklyn. Isaiah Whitehead was born and raised out here. Rondae Hollis-Jefferson, Chris McCullough, Joe Harris, Jeremy Lin, Justin Hamilton, Trevor Booker and Luis Scola all live here.

TYPICAL 20-SOMETHINGS Our guys love Brooklyn, the culture and vibe really match well with our personal styles and team dynamic. Sometimes we go out to a charity event or a press gig, but otherwise, they’ll come over — we’ll order food and play Madden football, or watch TV. I guess I’m not all that different from all the other 22-year-olds who just moved to New York, in that way.

Carmelo Anthony often says these days — with a smirk or smile — that he has blocked the Knicks’ 2014-15 season out of his mind. It is an undecipherable blur that he simply cannot remember.

This usually elicits a laugh and gets him off the hook for contemplating that absurd 17-win campaign, a team low.

Who can say whether Anthony’s amnesia is real? Regardless, could some memories be roaring back?

The Knicks have lost 15 of their last 18 games. Their current season has begun to produce disturbing echoes of the last one: the same competitive despair, the same threat of irrelevance, the same undertones of nastiness.

In the absence of wins and the good feelings they engender, troublesome happenings — “distractions,” in sports vernacular — tend to percolate and thrive.

Another one emerged late Tuesday night during another Knicks loss, in which Anthony engaged with a courtside heckler. James L. Dolan, the team’s owner, was sitting nearby, and Anthony yapped to the fan that he should ask Dolan for a refund.

On Wednesday afternoon, the Knicks disseminated a public apology from Anthony through one of their Twitter accounts.

“We are all frustrated by the team’s recent results — everyone, including me, my teammates, coaches and the fans,” Anthony’s statement read. “Last night, a fan and I let those frustrations get the best of us. I should not have responded the way I did.”

How has it descended to this point? It feels odd to look back to Dec. 19. Minutes after the Knicks beat the Chicago Bulls to improve their record to 14-14, Anthony was at his locker, congenial and confident, talking about his positive mental state.

“I’m at peace with myself right now,” Anthony said. “There’s nothing that can alter me.”

The Knicks stayed afloat. One month later, they were hovering at 22-22. But things soon spiraled downward, and the peace appears to be gone.

Over their past 18 games, the Knicks have scored an average of 100.6 points per 100 possessions and allowed their opponents an average of 108.4. During that time, their net rating, the difference between these figures, was minus 7.8, the fourth-worst mark in the league. It was worse last season, without a doubt. During the same span — Game No. 45 to Game No. 62 — the Knicks had a minus 11.4 net rating, worst in the league.

But there are things to be happy about this season. Kristaps Porzingis remains a rare talent. Defenses may have adjusted to his skills and he may be hitting a wall physically, but he has remained healthy and he will keep improving.

Anthony, playing with a troublesome left knee, is the sole player in the league who leads his team in points (21.5), rebounds (8) and assists (4.2) per game.

But all the losing has created a familiar dark aura over the team. It was a little over a year ago that Dolan battled a fan himself, sending an aggressive response to a critical email, telling him to root for the Nets.

It is the second season that the Knicks have run the triangle offense under the leadership of Phil Jackson, the team’s president. Knicks coaches are still admonishing players for not committing to the system, and reporters are still asking whether the players grasp their roles.

As it did last season, Madison Square Garden has become a sanctuary of quietude — save for the smooth jazz, show tunes and classic rock that emanate from the speakers during breaks in play. What little noise has existed has been limited to patronizing chants calling for Jimmer Fredette, who barely played after signing a 10-day contract with the team and was not re-signed, and chants supporting the opposing team.

Jackson has been mostly silent, except for an occasional post on Twitter, where he was ridiculed for comparing Stephen Curry to Mahmoud Abdul-Rauf. Jackson was quick to defend his remark, but he has not defended his team. And Dolan, for the most part, does not speak to the team’s beat reporters. When Anthony invoked Dolan on Tuesday, it was a rare moment when his name re-entered the main conversation around the team this season.

The irritation of Anthony, who does his job on live television and talks to reporters about it almost every day, has been most plain to see and analyze. The disillusioned sound bites and displays of frustration have begun to pile up.

On Sunday, when the Knicks lost to the Miami Heat, Anthony played almost the entire second half, trying to carry the team on his shoulders. After the game, Coach Kurt Rambis said the Knicks had relied too much on him and ran the same play too many times — which, to some fans, read as a self-indicting statement.

In the final moments, a loud “Let’s go, Heat!” chant rose up around the stands. Many Knicks fans were long gone.

When the buzzer sounded, the Knicks players and coaches popped off the bench to shake hands and head back to the locker room. Anthony stayed seated, hunched forward, towel draped over his shoulders. Several seconds passed. Then he got up, made the long walk across the court and disappeared into the tunnel.

My son, Galen, had been shooting hoops since he was 4, barely big enough to hold the ball. Now 11, he was 5-foot-6, a head taller than his mom, and light and agile on his feet. He could sink a basket from anywhere on the driveway, including a shot that passed between the branches of the maple tree on its way to the net. Basketball, I’d long believed, was his destiny.

Galen was a standout his first season at the YMCA, when he was 8. The next year we signed up for the club team, which turned our six-week rec league season into six months of intense tournament play. When it became clear that every kid on his team had been a YMCA standout (or had bypassed the Y league altogether), I arranged for him to take private lessons with the captain of the basketball team at the college where I teach.

He played in a 3-on-3 league over the summer and, at the conclusion of the club season the following spring, he began playing with an Amateur Athletic Union team, a national youth sports organization that, in addition to increasing the level of competition also expanded our travel radius to a tristate region. Three weekends a month, from October to July, we crisscrossed the Upper Midwest traveling to tournaments. All the parents complained about the endless driving, the lost weekends, the hours spent in the bleachers, yet all agreed the sacrifices were worth it. They were the cost of success.

I was no stranger to the world of hyper-intense sports. I’d grown up swimming and had spent my share of weekends camped out in stifling, chlorinated natatoriums. I was good enough to swim, on scholarship, at a large Division I university where I routinely lost to swimmers who’d go on to win Olympic medals. Twenty years later, I still swam every morning and I still believed in the power of sports — to focus both body and mind, release stress-busting endorphins, forge lifelong friendships. Even the defeats were useful. Anyone who’s ever loved a sport has learned the hard way that sometimes life isn’t fair.

But while I (most of the time) looked forward to swimming practices and meets, the chance to test my mettle against my peers, basketball tournaments made Galen nothing but miserable. He’d punish himself for days over missed shots and flubbed passes, even if his team prevailed in the end. Whenever a shot went in, he looked more relieved than happy, grateful not to have screwed up again. During the lulls between games, he sat by himself, brooding into his iPad. He didn’t want to talk to anyone, not even me.

For a while I thought I was the problem. I was failing my son by not loving his sport enough for the both of us — until the Saturday I took a seat on the bleachers beside another dad. He told me his older kids had also played competitive basketball; he’d been coming to tournaments for 15 years and figured he had at least a decade more to go. When I asked if his oldest daughter still played, he laughed and said, “By the end of high school she was so burned out she never wanted to see a basketball again. She won’t even watch it on TV with her brothers.”

“Was it worth it?” I asked.

“Builds character,” he said, half-grinning. I could tell he didn’t believe it, not all the way. I’d begun to wonder whether it was even true. Did youth sports really impart discipline and determination in ways that other activities — like learning Greek, say, or taking long hikes in the backcountry, or painting a fence — could not? How often does a childhood sacrificed on the altar of sports really confer advantages in adult life?

“Did she have fun at least?” I asked the dad.

“Some of the time,” he said. “But it wasn’t really about fun.”

To me, it should be, and John Engh, executive director of the National Alliance for Youth Sports, agreed. “Kids need diversity both socially and athletically,” he said in an email. “When their main outlet for both becomes the same activity, then a bad (or even a mediocre) experience can leave them disliking not only their sport but also physical activity of any kind.”

Driving home from Galen’s final tournament, after nearly a year of constant practices and games, I made a radical proposal. “Maybe it’s time to quit,” I said. “Basketball isn’t making you happy.”

I’d been afraid to utter the Q-word for months. Saying it felt a little like suggesting we rob a bank.

“If I quit basketball, what sport do I play?” Galen asked.

“How about NO sport,” I said. “At least not for a while. You can play basketball with friends all you want, but you don’t have to play on a team. We can spend our weekends camping and backpacking, skiing in the winter. You know, things we actually enjoy.”

He hesitated. “Every kid at my school plays something.”

If he didn’t have a sport, he continued, “I’ll be a nobody.”

“I’m only trying to consider how our light is spent,” I told Galen.

He looked at me. “What’s that mean? Is that poetry?”

“It’s John Milton,” I said. I’d taught a few of his sonnets the previous spring. “It’s about accepting who we are.”

Galen rolled his eyes. “I just want to go home.”

Over the weeks and months that followed, the idea grew on Galen. Freed from practice, he took to riding his bike and skateboard for hours, turning into the driveway as the last of the dusklight drained from the sky, his cheeks ruddy and his shoulders relaxed. He spent far more time outside without basketball weighing on his mind and schedule. He didn’t become a nobody or stop being an athlete.

Instead, both his definition of sports and his circle of friendships expanded. In the fall, he signed up for a kayaking class and went out for the junior high cross-country team, a far more reasonable eight-week season. When the snow fell, he joined a skiing club. Each new activity introduced him to new friends, and in some cases gave him a chance to hang out with his old basketball teammates without the pressure to win a game. This summer he’s heading to the Boundary Waters in northern Minnesota for a weeklong canoeing trip.

Now that the weather’s warm, Galen’s back to shooting hoops in the driveway. More than once, I’ve looked out the kitchen window and spotted him dribbling the ball between his legs while talking trash to an imaginary adversary. He fakes right, spins to the left, stops on a dime, swishes a jumper from behind the garbage cans. When he exultantly raises his arms above his head, full of joy and confidence, I know the decision to quit was the right one. A slam dunk.

A basketball scout named Bernard Bowen Jr. was having a look at a promising ballplayer named Marvin Roberts at the St. John’s Recreation Center in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, in late February. Mr. Roberts, from Bedford-Stuyvesant, had been a leading scorer at Florida International University, where Isiah Thomas, the N.B.A. star and former Knicks coach, recruited him in 2010. But the player from Brooklyn never got his chance at the N.B.A.

Now Mr. Roberts, 29, was training for a different sport — Fightball, a venture that could be described as street basketball waged in a nightclub, complete with a D.J., a bar and a V.I.P. lounge. Fightball seeks to commercialize one-on-one street basketball, the sport’s rawest form, and repurpose its unregulated intensity for the Instagram era.

Contact is encouraged. During a recent match, a player yanked his opponent’s ankle in the middle of a dunk, causing him to slam to the ground as spectators snapped photos with their phones. After shirt tugs and two-handed shoves, the flagrant gesture was finally called a foul. A $100,000 prize awaits the victor of the three-night tournament, which begins with 16 players. Mr. Roberts would be one of them.

A trainer shoved Mr. Roberts about the court with a large exercise ball as he tried making shots. Mr. Bowen sat in the bleachers. The Atlanta rapper Future played from a portable speaker.

“What’s your street name, Marvin?” Mr. Bowen called out.

“Money Over Fame,” Mr. Roberts shouted.

“No, your other name,” he said.

“Child Abuser,” he called back.

Mr. Bowen explained: “That’s because he’ll abuse men on the court.” Everybody in Fightball has a street name.

The tournament was three days away, and hype had been cultivated through a public relations team, social media and word of mouth. Long lines would appear outside a rented studio on a desolate block in Hell’s Kitchen. Admission was free, but only to those on the guest list. (There was a tournament in 2014, but that was more of a test run. Fightball’s financing comes from Apex Entertainment, which produces sports movies, like the 2014 Disney feature “Million Dollar Arm,” starring Jon Hamm.) Contrasting with Fightball’s slick aesthetic are the players themselves, who are among the best amateurs anywhere.

Mr. Bowen, a well-connected scout who is employed by Fightball to find the players, rattled off their gritty pedigrees: Leandro De Lima was found on the favela courts of Rio de Janeiro; Dusan Bulut, who flew in from Serbia, is ranked the No. 1 three-on-three player in the world; Billy Baptist was cut from the Chicago Bulls summer camp after a short stint; Eric Williams dominates courts in a gang-ridden area of Los Angeles. “It was a war zone,” Mr. Bowen said of visiting him. “We’ve gone to some of the roughest parts to find these people. But that’s who we are — edgy. Fightball is a lifestyle.”

After enduring abuse from the exercise ball, Mr. Roberts sat with Mr. Bowen and wiped himself down with a towel.

“This is a dream come true for me,” Mr. Roberts said. “I still want to make the N.B.A., but there are no politics in Fightball. It’s not about who you know. It’s about talent. Can you put the ball in the hoop?”

Fightball and all of its attendant branding is the conception of two creative directors: Liron Reznik, from Israel, and Jonas Hallberg, who is Swedish. They like wearing black and are basketball fanatics, though they give the impression that they have never dribbled a ball themselves.

Their ambitions extend past establishing a new sport; they envision an entire Fightball universe. The caps sold at tournaments and the posters encouraging Snapchat use and the hashtag “#fightball” are just the start: regular seasons, broadcast rights and contracts for players are all in the works.

Mr. Reznik and Mr. Hallberg find today’s N.B.A. tame compared to what was played a quarter century ago, when fierce players like Dennis Rodman and Charles Barkley captivated the sport, and they see untapped potential in the world’s street courts.

“We want to take all the energy and grit from the courts and put it under the spotlight,” Mr. Hallberg said.

“Not everyone makes the N.B.A., and you need to think of those guys,” said Coltrane Curtis, who runs a creative agency and is a Fightball investor.

Mr. Curtis referred to the success of the Ultimate Fighting Championship and such mixed-martial-arts spectacles. “We’re quite complementary,” he said. “This could be the M.M.A. of basketball in five years.”

Mr. Bowen, who has seen all kinds of promising players in his time as a scout, said that reaching the N.B.A. required more than court dominance. “There are great street ballers that might have had the direction of a Russell Westbrook,” he said, referring to the explosive Oklahoma City point guard. “But they made mistakes, had no direction, or didn’t have the same resources, so they end up playing pickup ball. But we want those players. They can play.”

Dana Mazes, who sat courtside on the tournament’s first night rooting for a small but lethal player who was a star at St. John’s University, was more direct. “On TV, that’s not real basketball,” she said. “All you need now are cornrows, being tall, and good management. There are players in jail out there better than those in the N.B.A. Fightball is as close to street ball as you can get. This is like what we see in our ’hood during the summer.”

On the championship night of Fightball in early March, Mr. Roberts, who won $10,000 on the first night, lost his match and was out of the tournament. A video crew was on hand, documenting every dunk and lingering on the spectators packed around the court. The cameraman followed Mr. Roberts to a sparse locker room, pulling in close on his anguish. These videos, uploaded afterward in a nearby “content room,” were produced in grainy black and white — the signature look of Fightball’s promotional media. This includes the monochrome films that play before matches detailing each player’s aspirational tale against a hip-hop beat.

The dramatic narratives of the players are all part of the Fightball image.

“There is an element of redemption,” Mr. Hallberg said. “The second chance. The chip on the shoulder in the court.”

“We like to talk about Fightball like ‘Rocky,’” he added. “Eight minutes of action and 90 minutes of story.”

The championship round came down to two players: Andrew “SpongeBob” Washington, 32, from Washington and Mr. De Lima, the street baller from Rio de Janeiro, who is also 32.

The studio was dark and thumping with hip-hop. A D.J. played Fightball’s slick theme track. The rapper Pusha T played a set. The players finally emerged around midnight. “I hope you came for the money,” goaded an M.C., clad in black, as the men battled for hoops.

“A hundred K is on the line, and they’re going to go to war for it,” he barked.

After a close last round, Mr. Washington, who is covered in tattoos, was victorious. He fell to his knees and pounded his fists against the court. When he got up, visibly emotional, he was asked to say something.

“We’re out of the ’hood forever now,” he cried, embracing friends who had rushed the court. “We’re out of the ’hood forever. I got a hundred grand now.”

After the match, when the space had cleared and Fightball’s social media team prepared for a long night of producing content to be uploaded the next day, Mr. Washington considered his future. “I was homeless before this,” he said, looking relieved. “I’m going to buy a condo for me and my mother now.”

Mr. Washington’s face was contorted into an intimidating grimace throughout the tournament, but he was now almost smiling.

“This game is elevating my whole family out of a situation,” he said. “I needed this money more than the world.”