LAS VEGAS — Jimmy Vaccaro has spent four decades as a bookmaker watching money move through an increasingly lucrative sports market. He is, by necessity, an astute observer of the human condition.

Jack Welch, the former head of General Electric, recommends to investors that they kick the tires of a business they are interested in. As such, if you are interested in sports betting, and many people are, there is no better place to start than with Vaccaro and the 24-hour sports book in this city’s South Point Casino.

Vaccaro speaks in the rat-a-tat of a sports ticker, and if he traded his golf shirt for a suit and tie he would be a natural for CNBC.

When he says that he is bullish on his profession, you believe him. With more than $5 billion expected to be bet here this year, according to state gaming officials, Nevada sports books are likely to post their eighth consecutive year of record handle.

“It has not gone backward,” he said. “It ain’t never going that way.”

And when Vaccaro says he is becoming bearish on the betting health of professional football, you lean in and listen. Last month, for three consecutive weeks, for the first time that he can remember, betting on college football at South Point surpassed betting on the N.F.L., by as much as $400,000.

College and professional football remain the No. 1 betting attraction for gamblers in Nevada, accounting for nearly 37 percent of dollars wagered, said Michael Lawton, an analyst for the Nevada Gaming Control Board.

The board does not break out college and professional numbers in any sport. Anecdotally, he said, “it’s been a 60-40 split,’’ in favor of the pros. “But the colleges are gaining,” he added.

It is no accident that the ascendance of college football at the betting windows has come as the N.F.L. wobbles in public perception. There is greater attention to the sport’s concussion dangers, there is the continuing presidential uproar over national anthem protests, and there are the squabbles among team owners.

“Their product isn’t very good these days,” said Nick Bogdanovich, chief oddsmaker for William Hill, which operates 107 sports books in Nevada.

What Vaccaro and his colleagues recognize is that sports betting is a market just like the Dow and Nasdaq. It has fundamentals. It rewards value. It is often irrational (ask anyone who bet McGregor over Mayweather) and at the mercy of both momentum and unforeseen circumstances.

It is also something that should be taken seriously, especially since the United States Supreme Court is hearing arguments next week on a New Jersey case that could expand sports wagering to states beyond Nevada — wagering that is now leaning away from the N.F.L.

“Some good players have gone down this season, and it has cost us, especially the loss of that pretty good quarterback in Green Bay,” Bogdanovich said, referring to Aaron Rodgers, who has been out with a broken collarbone since Week 6 of the N.F.L. season.

At the Westgate SuperBook, there have been numerous weeks in recent seasons in which Jay Kornegay has watched his clerks write more tickets on N.C.A.A. games than those in the N.F.L. He notes that college football offers a bigger menu of games that can be bet on — often more than 50, spread out from Tuesday to Saturday — and that there has been a steep increase in the popularity of betting apps on cellphones, taking away any stigma attached to wagering.

“You no longer have to tell your wife you are going out for milk to get a bet down,” Kornegay said. “It’s right on the phone for you.”

John Avello, a bookmaker at the Wynn Las Vegas, says gamblers see better opportunity for more lucrative payouts in the college game. Like Vaccaro, he has set point spreads for professional football for decades. He trusts his gut, his experience and the spread he sets for the 16 or so weekly N.F.L. games.

Understanding the hearts, minds and skills of the young men competing in the Toledo-Kent State game is a lot dicier.

“There’s more volatility and room for mistakes in the college game,” Avello said. “You can find an edge there, and that is what gamblers do. We are hard to beat when it comes to the N.F.L.”

Chris Lawless is a professional gambler who is wagering more on college games not only because there are flawed betting lines to take advantage of, but also because the games are more enjoyable. He cited last Friday’s contest between Central Florida and South Florida, a 49-42 shootout in which three touchdowns were scored in the final 53 seconds. Central Florida remained undefeated, at 11-0, but did not cover: It was giving 11 points.

“There are more momentum shifts and more exciting plays and more passion,” Lawless said.

No one here is ready to bury the N.F.L. and devote full attention to the English Premier League. Not yet, anyway.

Still, when Vaccaro was at the iconic, but now closed, Barbary Coast and at the Mirage casino on the Strip, the split between professional and college football was pronounced. “Nearly $4 on the N.F.L. for every buck on a college game,” he said.

That is no longer the case. As a fan, Vaccaro prefers the college game. “There’s more insanity, which is good for everyone,” he said. And as a bookmaker, he foresees the N.F.L. continuing to cede ground.

Basketball now accounts for more than 31 percent of sports wagering in Nevada and baseball 23 percent, according to state figures. Soccer, too, is on the upswing as more games are being televised and streamed. Like college sports bettors, those betting on soccer are tribal in their devotion to their teams.

“It’s the recreational guys that are driving the growth,” Vaccaro said. “They want to put a few bucks on their team, watch and have a good time.”

No, the N.F.L. is no longer the only game in town.

IRVING, Tex. — When the N.F.L. owners signed off on Commissioner Roger Goodell’s five-year extension, two important things happened: Goodell made it clear this would be his last deal with the league, and league owners took a moment to figure out exactly what they will get for the hundreds of millions they have committed to him during the next seven years.

In a word, continuity, numerous owners said, and the start of a smooth transition to new leadership, as Goodell begins the process of finding a suitable successor to take over when his deal expires in 2024, if he does not decide to leave sooner.

Goodell, the owners acknowledge, is hardly the perfect leader for North America’s most successful sports league. His tenure, they know, has been filled with missteps and controversies, unforced errors and self-inflicted wounds.

But he has worked for the league for 35 years, and he knows, better than anyone, the owners, their ancestors and their progeny. That is no small thing. He knows which ones he must listen to, and which ones he can pretend to listen to, and how to finesse them. The same goes for the media titans who have helped turn the N.F.L. into a $14 billion-a-year juggernaut. During his tenure as commissioner, which began in 2006, Goodell has helped team values skyrocket, and the owners are betting that will continue under his leadership.

“You can’t be cutting off your nose to spite your face,” one owner said of his colleagues who want to replace Goodell for his missteps, most notably in his handling of player discipline and off-field controversies. “People tend to focus on the things he did wrong. But who’s going to replace him? That’s when things bog down.”

The owners did not want to speak publicly about league business before Wednesday’s owners’ meetings.

Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones tried for months to undermine the new deal, arguing that Goodell should not be rewarded with a new contract while the league was facing big challenges, like the decline in television ratings and player protests during the national anthem. Jones hired the star lawyer David Boies and threatened to sue his fellow owners if they did not halt the contract talks, a move that led to his ouster last month from the compensation committee.

At the one-day owners’ meetings here on Wednesday, Jones and several of his allies continued to quietly complain about the deal, Goodell’s leadership and a league office they believe is filled with too many meddlesome executives.

Speaking after the meeting, Goodell tried to downplay the friction created by his contract extension. He said that the league was stronger because owners were able to disagree, both among themselves and with the commissioner. He added that his relationship with Jones has not been damaged.

“We don’t always agree, I’m not paid to agree and he’s not paid to agree with me,” Goodell said.

Goodell then gave Jones an awkward hug and left the room.

Jones took the podium and said the owners will consider changing the N.F.L.’s constitution to give them more sway over league executives, including the commissioner. He added that the owners would look at trimming the power of the department that investigates off-field behavior by players.

Jones tried to downplay the tension he created when he threatened to sue the owners on the compensation committee, saying that he was only trying to improve the league. But he also took a dig at the size of the commissioner’s new contract.

“I know how much Roger Goodell loves the National Football League, and he should love it even more right now,” he said.

Ultimately, Jones failed to derail Goodell’s new contract because of a basic truth: Whatever their differences, most owners believe Goodell is still the best man to lead the league, and they know there is no credible replacement they could agree on. That’s why, in May, the owners voted unanimously to extend his contract through 2024, and they raised little fuss when the compensation committee offered him a deal worth up to $40 million a year.

Arthur Blank, the owner of the Atlanta Falcons and the chairman of the compensation committee, said on Wednesday that most of the other owners were glad the fight with Jones was over.

“The owners were bothered by anything that was a distraction from the league, the league’s business,” Blank said. “There was a strong feeling in the room that we need to bond together, be together.”

Many owners say it would be risky to replace Goodell at a critical juncture for the N.F.L. Roughly half of the league’s revenue comes from broadcast and media deals, yet television ratings are down for the second straight year. In the coming years, networks could balk at paying even more for the rights to show games as the league continues to chip away at the legacy media companies’ traditional lock on N.F.L. content. Digital media companies, such as Amazon, Facebook and Netflix, have shown little appetite for competing for rights that now cost more than $1 billion a year.

Some of the world’s most prosperous companies clamor to become league sponsors, but that enthusiasm has been eroded by a series of public relations disasters, including, most recently, the protests during the national anthem.

Leaguewide attendance has held steady at around 17 million fans a year, but a growing number of fans are turned off by the price of attending games and have decided instead to watch at home, or not at all.

Goodell has also been criticized for his heavy handed discipline of players, which has often been followed by lawsuits and expensive investigations that have shifted the focus away from the action on the field. Now Goodell will grapple with a lawsuit from a former NFL Network employee who has accused former co-workers of sexual harassment and assault.

“We take that very seriously,” Goodell said. “Those are issues that are important to us. We want to make sure all of our employees, whether at the NFL Network or league office, or at clubs, are working in a safe and comfortable environment.”

While some owners have said Goodell was too slow to grasp the magnitude of the player safety issue and domestic violence within the league, they have profited handsomely under Goodell’s leadership. League revenue has tripled under his watch, and every franchise is worth more than $1 billion.

Also, with the league’s labor agreement set to expire in 2020, and its television contracts expiring in 2021 and 2022, Goodell’s institutional knowledge could be difficult to replace. He has been willing to cede much of the power during labor and media negotiations to a handful of key owners, something a hypothetical replacement might not be willing to do.

“In an industry as complicated as ours, with fans, media, owners and players, you have to have someone who understands the league’s business,” another owner said. “You need to understand each owner’s personality, understand the process and understand how to get votes.”

Ultimately, Goodell’s primary job is to increase the value of the league by bringing in more revenue. On that front he gets high marks from most owners. On Monday, the league said that it had extended its mobile streaming agreement with Verizon through 2022, a deal worth at least $2 billion, roughly double the value of the last deal.

Still, several owners said that they have protected themselves in case Goodell falters. They structured his contract so that 90 percent of his compensation is based on financial and nonfinancial goals, and the members of three influential committees made up of about 20 owners will decide whether he meets the targets.

According to several owners, Goodell has already said that he will not seek another contract beyond 2024, when he will be 65. Grooming a successor, or searching for one outside the league’s Park Avenue headquarters, will be one of his chief responsibilities. One owner added that Goodell may leave after a new labor deal is struck or the league’s broadcast contracts are renewed, and not finish his contract.

“I think there is a limit to how many years you should serve in this,” Goodell said. “I’m prepared and ready to go.”

At the very least, the fight over Goodell’s contract and his leadership skills has forced the owners to openly discuss the league’s future, another owner said. With the contract dispute seemingly resolved, the owners are confronting the far more complex and daunting tasks ahead.

Keith Jackson, ABC’s signature voice of college football, remembered for his love of the game’s pageantry and his Georgia-rooted, country boy flourishes on autumn Saturdays through five decades, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 89.

Robert A. Iger, the chief executive of the Walt Disney Company, which owns ABC, confirmed Mr. Jackson’s death in a statement on Twitter on Saturday. “For generations of fans, Keith was college football,” Mr. Iger said.

Mr. Jackson had recently returned home from the hospital after surgery, a spokesman for ESPN, which is owned by Disney, said.

Mr. Jackson worked at 10 Summer and Winter Olympics and on “ABC’s Wide World of Sports.” He was the play-by-play man for the inaugural season of N.F.L. “Monday Night Football” and was at the microphone for baseball, pro and college basketball, and auto racing.

But he was best known for ranging across the collegiate football map, from Ann Arbor to Tuscaloosa, from Columbus to Happy Valley, the home of Penn State.

“You always know it’s a big game when Keith’s there,” Joe Paterno, the Penn State coach, once said.

Mr. Jackson had the same reputation among his colleagues in the booth. As the former quarterback Bob Griese, Mr. Jackson’s color commentator for many years, recalled: “At our first game, he said to me, ‘All right, what do you want to do?’ I said: ‘You’re the guy who’s been here. You’re Mr. College Football.’”

Even after decades in the job, Mr. Jackson retained an old-fashioned, wide-eyed love for the college game.

“The N.C.A.A. can make anybody cynical,” he once told Sports Illustrated. “But I’m not. It’s still fun to see new generations enjoy the game peaceably. I get there an hour and a half before the game and watch the bands rehearse, the people carry on. You let it seep into you.”

The National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Association, now known as the National Sports Media Association, named Mr. Jackson sportscaster of the year five consecutive times, from 1972 to 1976.

He told The New York Times how the broadcaster Ted Husing had inspired his breezy style, advising him: “Never be afraid to turn a phrase. If you can say something in such a way that’s explanatory, has flavor and people can understand it, try it. If it means quoting Shakespeare or Goethe, do it.’’

He was more partial to the lingo of his native rural South.

Mr. Jackson’s “Whoa, Nellie!” punctuating an exciting play was his best-remembered good ol’ boy touch, though he maintained that he didn’t use it all that often.

He said he had a mule named Pearl while growing up on a Georgia farm but attributed the expression to his great-grandfather Jefferson Davis Robison, who evidently plowed many a field holding the reins of a mule.

“He was a farmer and he was a whistler,” Mr. Jackson told The Los Angeles Times in 2013. “He loved two phrases: ‘Dad gummit’ and the other was ‘Whoa Nellie.’”

Mr. Jackson informally christened the University of Michigan’s cavernous stadium at Ann Arbor “the Big House”; he relished broadcasting the Rose Bowl game, “the granddaddy of ’em all”; and he admired the enormous linemen, who were “the Big Uglies in the trenches.”

Keith Max Jackson was born on Oct. 18, 1928, in the western Georgia town of Roopville, and he grew up nearby, just outside Carrollton.

He joined the Marines as a teenager, then attended Washington State University in Pullman, Wash., receiving a degree in broadcast journalism in 1954. He spent 10 years at the ABC affiliate KOMO in Seattle in news, sports and production, became sports director of ABC Radio West, then began broadcasting college football for ABC Sports in 1966.

When ABC’s “Monday Night Football” was introduced by Roone Arledge in 1970, Mr. Jackson was named the play-by-play broadcaster to work alongside Howard Cosell and Don Meredith, but a year later Mr. Arledge replaced him with a glamorous name, the former Giants star Frank Gifford.

Mr. Jackson returned to broadcasting college football and teamed with Bill Russell on N.B.A. games.

Mr. Jackson was considered well prepared and accurate, but amid the plaudits he was also remembered for a tumultuous moment’s action that he missed.

It happened at the December 1978 Gator Bowl game between Ohio State and Clemson.

With about two minutes remaining and Clemson leading, 17-15, a Tigers player, Charlie Bauman, intercepted a pass and went out of bounds in front of the Ohio State bench. Woody Hayes, the Buckeyes’ coach and one of college football’s biggest names, slugged him. An ABC camera showed the blow, but neither Mr. Jackson nor his color commentator, Ara Parseghian, were looking at the monitor.

ABC showed a replay, but it was from a different camera angle and did not capture the punch. Mr. Jackson signed off at the game’s end, Clemson having run out the clock, without reporting on the punch, which was seen by millions on television. Ohio State fired Hayes the next day.

Mr. Jackson, who lived in Southern California, had planned to retire after the 1998 season, but changed his mind when ABC suggested that he concentrate on Pacific 10 games so he could remain close to home.

He continued with a largely regional schedule, then retired after broadcasting the 2006 Rose Bowl game.

Mr. Jackson is survived by his wife, Turi Ann; his children Melanie Ann, Lindsey and Christopher; and three grandchildren.

Mr. Jackson shunned controversy in his college football broadcasts.

“I’m not a journalist,” he told The Boston Globe in 1999. “It’s a simple thing. When ABC spends half a billion dollars on something, I’m not going to rip and tear it apart.”

He prided himself on being concise and was loath to steal the spotlight from the players.

“This is not my stage,” he said. “The stage belongs to the athletes and coaches who play the game. People don’t throw down 1,000 bucks for a TV to hear me talk.”

As popular as fantasy football has become, there will still be people picking fictional teams for the first time this year. And there are others who have played for years but have no clue as to what they are doing. If you fall into either category, this article is for you.

Let’s get this basic concept out of the way: Fantasy football involves selecting real players to create fake teams that earn points based on real players’ performances on the field. If your fake team scores more points than other people’s fake team, you win (and get to rub it in their face on Tuesday morning).

Sometimes luck is all you need to win your fantasy league. But more often than not, you need to do some preparation to have a chance. By following a few simple guidelines before and during your draft, maybe you’ll be the surprise star of your friends and family league or finally show up those work colleagues who have mocked your every move in the draft room.

If you don’t know the difference between Devonta Freeman and D’Onta Foreman, you better find someone who does.

Luckily, there is no shortage of folks on the internet who spend way too much time analyzing football statistics, including established pros who work for ESPN, CBS Sports and other major sports websites, and those on the independent circuit. Most experts will rank players for each position based on how they think they will perform over the course of the season.

If you’re feeling overwhelmed by the choices, head over to FantasyPros.com, a website that ranks the accuracy of the best experts around. You’ll notice that some experts are consistently more accurate than others (like the, ahem, Sablich brothers, who were ranked second most accurate from 2011 to 2015). If you do not want to play favorites, you can consult the website’s ECR (Expert Consensus Rankings), which gives you the player rankings based on the average of all the experts’ picks.

Once you find a website or an analyst you like, use those rankings to help you decide whom to pick during your draft.

Before you draft, you need to know how points will be awarded. This seems obvious, but you would be surprised how many people overlook this crucial aspect.

The two most popular scoring formats are standard and P.P.R. (points per reception). In P.P.R. leagues, as the name implies, players who tend to catch more passes than others at their position are of greater value.

For example, the Jets running back Bilal Powell scored 139 fantasy points in standard scoring leagues last season, ranking 22nd for his position. But in P.P.R. scoring, he had 197 points, the 16th most for running backs.

It’s fairly easy to predict which players will have a lot of receptions, based on past performance, so most websites that provide player rankings also provide separate lists for standard scoring and P.P.R. scoring.

There’s no pick more important than the first one. Securing at least one elite player will go a long way in your fantasy success.

Avoid risky players, like ones who tend to be inured often (like the Patriots tight end Rob Gronkowski). Also, going with a quarterback is not the smartest play (more on that later).

Looking at the 2017 field, the consensus in the fantasy football community is that the two best fantasy running backs will be the Cardinals’ David Johnson and the Steelers’ Le’Veon Bell. They are likely to be the first two picks. Why? Because there are very few running backs who can be relied on for consistent production. (N.F.L. teams tend to use multiple running backs, rather than one who handles most of the carries, and thus is more likely to be injured.)

Beyond them, you’ll see a lot of wide receivers taken in the first round. The Steelers’ Antonio Brown, the Giants’ Odell Beckham Jr., the Falcons’ Julio Jones and the Buccaneers’ Mike Evans are expected to continue producing at a high level this season.

It’s important to remember that starting in Week 5, N.F.L. teams start taking a week off, meaning their players are not available to score points for your fantasy team.

This will expose how much depth your team has, and highlights the importance of every pick in your fantasy draft. It also means you’ll want to pay close attention each week to which players are available on your league’s waiver wire (most leagues allow you to add and drop players as the season progresses).

With that said, I do not recommend passing on a player in the draft just because he has the same bye week as another player you picked. Between injuries and the players you add and subtract, it probably won’t hurt you in the long run. But keep it in mind as you draft, so you can avoid a big blunder, like picking four running backs who are all off in Week 9.

We’re talking about practice, man.

It’s usually not a good idea to enter a draft with concrete rules, like “I must draft running backs with my first two picks.” Even worse is having no plan at all.

I like experimenting with different strategies by participating in mock drafts, which are available on the popular fantasy sports websites of ESPN and Yahoo Sports. FantasyPros.com also has an excellent Draft Wizard tool that allows you to customize your mock draft based on your league’s settings (including number of teams, scoring and roster positions). With enough fake drafts, you will learn which strategy will yield the kind of team that you can be proud to field.

But if you enter a draft cold, a sound approach is to choose the best player available until all of your starting positions are filled (with some exceptions, below).

The top scorer in fantasy football each year is almost always a quarterback, as Aaron Rodgers was last season. This is why you’ll often see the top quarterbacks taken in the first round of a fantasy draft. This is also one of the most costly mistakes you can make.

There are plenty of detailed explanations out there involving fancy math that explain why you shouldn’t draft a quarterback too early, but remember this: The value of a player in fantasy football is always relative to his position.

The quarterback position as a whole has become more valuable in fantasy football in recent years, meaning that there are several quarterbacks who score enough fantasy points each week for your team to win, as long as your other positions do their part. Therefore, if you spend your early picks on top running backs and wide receivers, you can still get a good fantasy quarterback later in the draft.

Another way of putting it: It’s easier to get a good fantasy quarterback later in a draft than it is to get a good running back or wide receiver.

Along these same lines, know this: Every time a fantasy team drafts the Denver Broncos team defense in the eighth round, an angel loses its wings.

Just because you have starting players at all of your other positions, it’s not time to pick your starting defense or kicker. In the eighth round, you can still get a quality position player who could be a difference maker for your team. You can always find quality options for kickers and defenses with your last two draft picks, I guarantee that.