On any given Saturday or Sunday, from early September through late November, the fields of Prospect Park in Brooklyn reflect a moving tableau of colors, as hundreds of young athletes in bright colors chase one another in what looks like an official sport, but with the playful zeal of say, tag, or capture the flag.

A ball is hiked, and an offense goes into motion. A running back sells a fake and plunges up the middle pretending to carry the ball, as the quarterback slips it to another player who turns up the sideline to sprint…until his flag is snatched and the whistle blows.

This is flag football, one of the fastest growing organized sports in New York. Asphalt Green, a youth sports powerhouse on Manhattan’s Upper East Side, went from registering 45 players in 2007 to over 500 this year. At the Yorkville Youth Athletic Association, also based on the East Side, flag football could surpass baseball in terms of demand in a few years, said Arlene A. Virga, Yorkville’s executive director. In Brooklyn, it has become so popular that on weekends in the fall, two different youth leagues overwhelm the green spaces of some of Brooklyn’s most prominent parks.

In Prospect Park, 65 teams, featuring roughly 650 uniformed players, boys and girls from 7 to 17, all with flags draped down each hip, compete from morning through the late afternoon on five fields. The games are officiated by a team of referees, under the auspices of the St. Francis Xavier (SFX) Youth Sports flag football commissioner, Tom Henderson.

Raised in Sunset Park, Mr. Henderson, 59, grew up playing tackle football in Brooklyn’s recreational and semipro leagues. He looks like a throwback gridiron guy; all girth and energy, with engaged eyes and a head of wild, white hair that blows in the wind. Usually helping him on the weekends are his son, Tom Jr., who grew up playing in the league, and a cadre of teenage referees who hang out by Mr. Henderson’s unofficial office, the equipment station by the fields.

“We started with six teams in 2007,” he said. “The heart and soul was Barbara,” he added, referring to his late wife. “She did all the hard work. All I did was talk to people in the park.” Mr. Henderson said that he and his wife heard about the sport and started the league a decade ago, when Tom Jr. and his friends wanted to play football.

In 2009, a second league, sponsored by the 78th Precinct Youth Council, formed in the same part of Brooklyn. Today, over 400 boys and girls compete on nearly every free patch of turf in Brooklyn Bridge Park and a couple of other locations in the borough. The only thing prohibiting more growth is available space, said Josh Hernández, the 78th Precinct’s director of basketball and flag football operations. He understands the sport’s appeal.

“It’s taking touch football into a more formal sport,” Mr. Hernández said. You get the strategy and the trick plays of professional football, he added, “without the same potential for injury.”

With mounting clinical studies and jarring autopsies of former players, participation in tackle football is on decline for youth throughout America. But Mr. Henderson and Mr. Hernandez believe that the essence of the game doesn’t depend on tackling.

Leo Nusbaum, 10, would agree. “First, it’s fun!” said Leo, a third-year veteran of the SFX league. “ And I like getting a free belt and free flags. I also get to play quarterback, so there’s learning the playbook and calling plays.”

The sport is played five-on-five over two 20-minute halves. The games are fast-paced and intense. Despite the no-contact rule, it’s football with many of its trappings: uniforms, playbooks, huddles, strategy, movement of every player on every play, running, passing, defensive stands, Hail Marys, scrambling quarterbacks, interceptions, barking coaches, roaring sidelines, and the motherlode phrase for points and glory: Touchdown!

Observing from the sidelines, it’s hard not to notice the genuine and infectious level of enthusiasm among the players, their coaches and those there to cheer them on.

“Both boys just love it, and as a parent it’s so much fun to watch,” said Melina Mackall of Brooklyn whose two sons, Jackson, 11, and Spencer, 9, play in the 78th Precinct league.

The pastime has also helped the family stay faithful to a promise announced by Ms. Mackall’s husband, who grew up playing full-contact football. “He told me early in our relationship that he would never let his kids play tackle,” she recalled. “Which was a relief, since that would be one battle I wouldn’t have to fight.”

If ever there was an industry that shrugs at moral outrage, it is college sports. Autumn Saturdays are held sacred for football rivalries, are they not? Spring weekends are the stuff of March Madness.

Every now and then, some institutions of higher learning earn a tsk-tsk for cutting corners, or a wrist slap for violating N.C.A.A. rules. No-show classes at North Carolina? No worries. College basketball coaches indicted on a charge of trying to turn those student-athletes into meal tickets? It’s been going on forever.

But try to hire a football coach with a middling record at a once-mighty Southeastern Conference university.

Hang on for dear life.

Consider the case of the Ohio State defensive coordinator Greg Schiano. On Sunday morning, he was apparently the coach-elect of the University of Tennessee. By nightfall, he was not.

Schiano’s hiring had leaked before it was announced, and the decision was swiftly pilloried because Schiano had allegedly — and this is a whopper of an allegedly — failed to report sexual assault while an assistant coach at Penn State under Joe Paterno and alongside the convicted child molester Jerry Sandusky.

“SCHIANO COVERED UP CHILD RAPE AT PENN STATE,” was painted on The Rock, a campus landmark and a sort of predigital town square.

Elected officials, of course, got involved on Twitter and in statements to reporters.

“The head football coach at the University of Tennessee is the highest-paid state employee,” said Jeremy Faison, a state representative. “They’re the face of our state. We don’t need a man who has that type of potential reproach in their life as the highest-paid state employee. It’s egregious to the people and it’s wrong to the taxpayers.”

In a 2015 deposition, the former Penn State assistant coach Mike McQueary testified that another Penn State assistant coach, Tom Bradley, had told him that Schiano had talked to him about seeing Sandusky abusing a boy sometime in the early 1990s. Both Schiano and Bradley, most recently an assistant at U.C.L.A, have denied the allegation and said they had no knowledge of the abuse.

On Monday, Anthony Lubrano, a trustee at Penn State since 2012, said in a statement that Schiano “had nothing to do with the Sandusky scandal.”

“Any stories about his involvement are completely uncorroborated and without basis in fact,” Lubrano said. “To impugn Mr. Schiano’s character based on hearsay alone is irresponsible and unfair.”

Tennessee’s athletic director, John Currie, too, issued a strong defense of Schiano that was strange in light of the fact Currie caved to public pressure and didn’t go through with Schiano’s hire.

“We carefully interviewed and vetted him, as we do candidates for all positions,” Currie said in a statement. “He received the highest recommendations for character, family values and commitment to academic achievement and student-athlete welfare from his current and former athletics directors, players, coaching colleagues and experienced media figures.”

Mark Dominik, the former general manager of the N.F.L.’s Tampa Bay Buccaneers, pinpointed the real reason Schiano was so objectionable to the Volunteer faithful: He hadn’t won enough.

As head coach of the Bucs in 2012 and 2013, Schiano was 11-21. In 11 seasons as Rutgers’ head coach, he went 68-67. His six winning seasons at Rutgers and six bowl appearances may have passed muster at the University of New Jersey, even if Schiano’s $2 million salary and the university’s $102 million stadium expansion turned off many Scarlett Knights fans.

But Old Rocky Top needs and wants better.

The uproar in Volunteer nation is not because the Tennessee faithful are suddenly “woke” and demanding a coach who’s part Billy Graham, part Bobby Bowden.

After all, the Vols once employed as their basketball coach Bruce Pearl, who is no stranger to N.C.A.A. transgressions. Last year, Tennessee settled a $2.48 million federal lawsuit that a group of women brought against the university for the way it handled their allegations of sexual assaults by student-athletes.

Certainly some of the people in Tennessee who objected so swiftly and vociferously on Sunday to the Schiano news were drawing a moral line. For others, though, this is about the University of Tennessee wanting to be good at football again. They want a better coach than Schiano.

This year the Vols posted their first eight-loss season in history. Butch Jones (34-27 over five seasons) was fired on Nov. 12, the day after the team lost to Missouri, 50-17, to finish an inexcusable 0-8 in conference play.

Volunteer nation could not endure another season like that. So Schiano’s deal was scrapped. The talking heads were happy, as were the trolls and politicians.

“Thank you to our community for stepping up and standing for our traditional, commons sense TN Values! #HigherStandards” tweeted Jason Zachary, a state representative.

Now, moral outrage has found a home at the University of Tennessee. At least until the Vols find a coach who can win a national championship.