When the Yankees hired Aaron Boone out of the broadcast booth to be their manager, he had never held a job in baseball as a coach or manager, or even as a scout or executive.

But it is not quite true that Boone, 45, is completely bereft of coaching experience. For the last five years, he was the defensive coordinator of the mighty Steelers, a youth flag football juggernaut in Scottsdale, Ariz., where he makes his home.

“We used to joke with him when he was interviewing for the Yankees’ job,” said DeAndre Wadlington, a parent of one of the team’s players. “We’d read all this about him not having coaching experience and we’d be: ‘C’mon, man. He coached the Steelers.’ All he had to do was show his résumé.”

Wadlington paused to laugh.

“I told him when he got the job: ‘The Steelers prepared you for this.’”

Wadlington laughed some more, but he might have been on to something. Many of the qualities that parents say they saw Boone exhibit with their boys — upbeat, confident, calm and able to connect with players — are among the reasons the Yankees chose him.

And if you think Yankee Stadium is hyperkinetic in October, try stepping into the caldron of youth sports, with its overbearing parents, grating coaches and emotionally burdened children under the lights on Saturday nights.

“It can get a little testy out there sometimes,” Boone said with a grin.

Might there be an old grainy video of the new Yankee manager misbehaving on the sidelines available somewhere on the internet?

“No,” Boone said, smile still intact. “I think we’re good.”

Shortly after his playing career ended in 2009, Boone got involved in coaching for the same reason many parents do: to bond with his children — Brandon, now 12, and Bella, 8. (He and his wife, Laura, adopted two boys, Jeanel, 15, and Sergot, 13, four years ago.)

While baseball is deeply ingrained in the Boone family — his grandfather Ray; his father, Bob; and his brother Bret also played in the major leagues — Aaron did not see the point of teaching the intricacies of a swing to 6-year-olds. Football, though, carried plenty of appeal. He played the sport from Pop Warner through high school, where he was a speedy receiver, he recalled, but didn’t like to get hit. He remains a passionate fan of the football team at his alma mater, Southern California.

“I always had these romanticized thoughts that I was going to coach high school football one day,” said Boone, who spent the last eight baseball seasons working for ESPN. “So I thought it would be fun. We had the same nucleus of kids every year and their parents, and it kind of snowballed. We’d get to the fall, late in the baseball season and you start looking forward to our team and asking, ‘Are we going to play in the winter season and the spring season?’”

Boone and his coaching partner, Mark Tapley, would meet before the start of each season and devise a play list, schemes and blitz packages for the 5-on-5 league. Tapley, with a laminated play sheet in his hands on the sidelines, called the offensive plays, and Boone, known as Coach Aaron, handled the defense.

The eight or nine boys on the team practiced once or twice a week. There was no team mom and no orange slices at halftime.

“We were all business,” Tapley said.

Boone and Tapley, a former college quarterback, made for a complementary pair. “He was the brains behind it,” said Boone, who lent a cool head.

Though Boone could be fiery on the baseball field — he was kicked out of his first game in the major leagues — he was a pillar of patience and restraint as a football coach.

“We had a good yin and yang,” said Tapley, whose two sons played on the team. “I’m a little loud. I have more of that Type A, overzealous personality as it pertains to coaching. Aaron was calm. He observed. He’s not a yeller and a screamer by any means. If the ref makes a bad call, I’m going to get loud and let him know about it. If a kid runs the wrong route, I might bark at him a little.”

He added: “Aaron made me a better person. You know, ‘Let’s not take this down to an unhealthy level.’”

Boone had an ability to connect with the boys as well as the grown-ups. While the gravitas of being a former professional athlete may have helped, so did Boone’s investing in the boys, periodically texting parents on how their child was developing, and using setbacks on the field as teachable moments.

Sammy Tadio’s parents nicknamed Boone “The Sammy Whisperer” for the knack he had of centering their son when he would get riled up or down on himself.

“He’d pull Sammy aside and say, ‘You know how to do this,’ and slap him on the back and send him out there,” Bill Tadio said. “Coming from a guy like Aaron, I think it resonated a little more than some dad telling him something. To be able to bounce back the next play — he was all about that. Win or lose, you never put your head down and you shake hands at the end of the game.”

What also caught Tadio’s eye was how Boone coached his own son Brandon the same way. (Bella played briefly, when she was 6.)

From the perspective of the players, the name of the league — Prime Time Athletics — was no misnomer. The games, which lasted an hour, resembled a football carnival. Music blared over loudspeakers as four or five games were played concurrently. Snacks and soda were for sale.

Afterward, the families often met at a sports bar where they’d eat, watch college football during the fall, and send the kids off with quarters to play arcade games.

When Boone’s family hosted a team party after the Steelers won the championship one season, he invited all the children into his garage, where he had more than 100 bats from his playing days. He told each child to pick out a bat and he signed it with a personal message.

To Sammy Tadio, he wrote, “To a great kid w/ a huge heart.”

Boone played baseball for his father, Bob, twice — on a Connie Mack League team after he graduated from high school and later when Bob managed the Cincinnati Reds. Asked what he has gotten out of the experience of coaching his own son’s team, Boone said, “Joy.”

“That’s what I took — the enjoyment, a little bit of competition,” he added. “We played to win and wanted to win, but I think it was just seeing kids get better and trying to mold them. I really enjoyed trying to help them not only deal with success because we were usually a good team, but also how do we react when we lose? How do we play when it’s hard, when you throw an interception or when a team is having its way with you? What’s our reaction then?”

Boone said that “in a small, probably weird, far-fetched way,” there were experiences he could take from coaching the boys and apply it to managing men. Helping mold his players is inherent in coaching any sport at any level.

In Scottsdale, a group of boys — and a few interested parents — will turn their eyes to the Yankees this season, which begins Thursday in Toronto. Some of the Steelers have stopped playing flag football, others have joined different teams, and the parents are somewhat wistful.

“The Yankees’ gain is our loss,” Tadio said.

It started New Year’s Day, right after No. 10 Central Florida defeated No. 7 Auburn in the Peach Bowl, 34-27, and improved to a perfect 13-0.

Central Florida Athletic Director Danny White turned to ESPN’s roving camera and declared: “National champs — undefeated.”

White is, among other things, a salesman for his school. Forgive him for a move that had a whiff of pro wrestling to it.

But Central Florida is really serious about this.

The university’s president, John C. Hitt, congratulated “our undefeated, national champion Knights.” White announced the Knights would hang a national championship banner and pay the team’s coaches their national championship bonuses. Josh Heupel, the incoming head coach, — tweeted about how excited he was “to defend our national title.” (Scott Frost, who led the Knights to this season’s 13 wins, is leaving to coach Nebraska.)

By Wednesday, Wikipedia — perhaps the only factual authority still widely accepted in 2018 — identified Central Florida’s claimed national title.

Got a problem with that?

The top-tier college football national championship has always been the most ephemeral of sports titles. In the decades when there was no official judge, two, three or more teams would frequently claim to be the champion of a single season. If other sports’ championships are as solid as gold-backed currency, this one has long felt closer to Bitcoin.

In that light, Central Florida’s case is not that crazy. In fact, when you think about it, your reaction may resemble the popular GIF of the N.B.A. star Alonzo Mourning: first, a head-shaking disbelief; then a raising of the eyebrows followed by a hesitant nod; and, finally, the universal sigh of acceptance.

“I say Central Florida can claim it if they want to,” Dan Jenkins, the longtime sportswriter and author of “Saturday’s America,” a collection of college football columns, said in an email.

He added, “We have nothing to lose but more bumper stickers.”

Of the 130 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision, Central Florida is the only one that won all its games — including, at a neutral site on Monday, Auburn, which had beaten both Alabama and Georgia, the two teams that will play in the College Football Playoff national championship game next Monday.

“Only thing we can keep doing is winning games,” Shaquem Griffin, a senior linebacker for Central Florida, said after the Peach Bowl win against Auburn. “There’s no more teams left for us to beat.”

To be sure, Central Florida is not going to replace Georgia or Alabama in the national title game next week, or play that game’s winner. And Oklahoma and Clemson were invited to the College Football Playoff semifinals, rather than Central Florida. Central Florida’s season is over. Fine, Griffin argued, but that has nothing to do with the Knights.

“What more can we do?” he said. “We won all of them, and I just feel that we should have had an opportunity to show our talents to any and every team that wants to go against us.”

It’s far from unusual for multiple teams to claim a national title. Five claimed one in 1935; six did in 1981. In fact, from the end of World War II to 1998, just five national titles were not claimed by more than one team.

It’s not even unprecedented to have a split in the era of the unified postseason, which began 20 years ago with the Bowl Championship Series. After the 2003 season, one-loss Southern California was not invited to the B.C.S. title game. It beat Michigan in the Rose Bowl and was voted No. 1 in the final A.P. poll. The Trojans claim that season’s title alongside the B.C.S. winner, Louisiana State, which beat Oklahoma in the Sugar Bowl.

The case against Central Florida’s championship is clear, of course. Its league, the American Athletic Conference, may like to call itself the sixth power conference. But college football’s five major leagues have magnitudes more money to spend on coaches and facilities, and this nearly always translates to better recruits and better teams.

The widely respected Sagarin rankings, which attempt to rate teams according to the strength of their schedule, rank Central Florida No. 13. That is partly the result of some close margins: the Knights beat South Florida and Memphis by just 7 points each, both times at home, the latter in double-overtime. And it is partly the result of a schedule deemed to be in the bottom half of the F.B.S. in terms of strength.

In the past, teams that claimed disputed national titles would point to some ranking that named them No. 1. You may not remember the Houlgate System, for instance, but Notre Dame could cite it as the basis for their 1927 national title. It’s a safe bet no such poll would put Central Florida at the top this season.

Alternatively: Who cares? Minnesota, Stanford and Tennessee are all seen as having rightful claims to the 1940 title, Jenkins noted, even though Minnesota played just eight games (and no bowl) and Tennessee actually lost its final game, the Sugar Bowl. The team that beat it, Boston College, finished fifth in the final A.P. poll — which, as was the case for decades, was taken before the bowls.

An article on Boston College’s website describes the Eagles’ “rightful claim to at least a share” of the title. Surely Central Florida’s publications won’t be far behind.

To the Sports Editor:

Re “The American Dilemma: Why Do We Still Watch Football?” Feb. 4:

Like many others, I made plans to take part in an American tradition last Sunday and gather with friends to watch the Super Bowl.

Many of my friends are guys I played high school football with in North Jersey in the 1970s, including one who has been paralyzed since the age of 16, when his neck was broken on the opening kickoff of the third game of our junior year.

I saw it happen from the sideline, about 20 feet away. I watched him lie on the field face down for what seemed like an eternity, not moving, until he was taken away by an ambulance. I cried in my bedroom for hours after that game, and I was numb for the rest of the weekend. But when school let out Monday afternoon, I went to my gym locker, changed into my uniform, and joined the rest of the team on the field for practice.

It doesn’t seem logical, as I write this, that I would still be a huge fan of football, or that my disabled friend, who has lived a life of immeasurable pain and hardship because of the football injury, would be one, too. But I am, and so is he, and so is everyone else who gathered around the TV last week to watch the game.

We go quiet, like everyone else, when a player is slow to get up, but we cheer the next hard hit.

It’s football. I’m not sure how I would react today if I had a young son who wanted to play contact sports. The game brought me great joy, both as a player and a fan, but also immense heartbreak. I know this: Something has to change.

Gene Gatens

Point Pleasant, N.J.

To the Sports Editor:

Re “Baseball and Unions Point Fingers Over Free-Agent Stalemate,” Feb. 7: Since we’re not really hearing the fans’ point of view in this discussion, here’s my take:

I agree that the best players in baseball should be well paid for their talent.

At the same time, the fans don’t want to see their favorite team commit millions for years in a deal with a player who then begins his slow decline, holding the team back.

If there is so much money in baseball, why don’t the owners lower prices a bit? We fans get tired of being constantly fleeced on the price of tickets. Not to mention the cost of cable to see the games on television and the unbearable barrage of advertising. The owners will still be rich and the players well remunerated, and some of the innocence and joy that have leaked out of the national pastime for decades could be restored.

Jonathan Handelsman

Paris

With each new N.F.L. rule forbidding late hits, low hits, high hits, hits against defenseless players and hits that pile drive an opponent into the ground, the league has tried every magnified, overarching way it can think of to protect its biggest stars.

But the N.F.L. has a problem. You can’t legislate the violence out of the game.

It is also a football rule that the hits will keep coming, usually until someone with the ball is on the ground. And sometimes not everyone gets up right away.

And then the league takes a hit of a different kind.

Sunday was just such a day.

Aaron Rodgers, the Green Bay Packers quarterback and one of the most prominent figures in American sports, went down with a thud early in a game in Minnesota. He rose but with a broken right collarbone. On Monday, Packers Coach Mike McCarthy said that the injury would require surgery and that Rodgers’s season could be over.

His injury is the latest, most dramatic setback for the league, which in a span of eight days, has endured the departure of some its biggest stars.

Last week, it was Odell Beckham Jr., the Giants’ popular lightning rod of a wide receiver who exited the arena in pain. His ankle was bent at a gruesome angle on a routine tackle. Beckham has already had the surgery to repair a splintered ankle, but his season has concluded.

The same day, J.J. Watt, the Houston Texans’ defensive end and another crossover star for his charitable works and marketability, was sidelined for the year with a fracture of the tibial plateau in his leg. Watt is a three-time winner of the league’s defensive player of the year award.

Hours after Rodgers’s injury in a loss on Sunday, Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Jameis Winston, the first overall pick of the 2015 N.F.L. draft, left his team’s game after he was tackled by two defenders and fell on his throwing shoulder. The team announced on Monday that Winston had a sprained AC joint in his shoulder and that he had not been ruled out of Tampa Bay’s game against Buffalo on Sunday.

Serious, debilitating injuries happen in every sport every year, not just football. But with the possibility that Rodgers is lost for the season, and with Watt and Beckham already shelved, the shape and competitive balance of the 2017 N.F.L. season is beginning to take a different turn.

The tested, experienced Packers, once thought to be in a commanding playoff position, may cede their status as the N.F.C. team most likely on the path to the Super Bowl. Several unexpected, up-and-coming contenders, from the Los Angeles Rams to the Philadelphia Eagles, have emerged instead.

At the same time, six weeks in, there will probably be new calls for more rules to keep football’s stars secure and upright.

If only it were just a matter of one more rule.

There doesn’t appear to be much that could have been done to prevent any of these recent injuries. Rodgers was upset that he was banged to the ground by Minnesota’s Anthony Barr after he had thrown the football. But the ball had just left his hand, and despite the N.F.L.’s already zealous, punitive penalties against contact with the quarterback, no penalty was called on the play.

Watt was engaged with a blocker in a fairly typical fashion. Beckham’s twisted leg was horrific to watch, but the contact was legal.

Winston, in the most elemental play of all, was chased from behind and tackled to the ground in a way that happens dozens of times in most N.F.L. games and hundreds of times in a season.

That may be the overriding point.

In the modern N.F.L., the helmets are more technologically advanced. The footwear is improved. Equipment safety guidelines are intricate and enforced. There are far more doctors, including neurologists, on the sideline than ever. The athletic training staff resembles a small army. Video replay ensures that excessive or unnecessarily vicious hits that may not have been noticed initially can be penalized after the fact, even if it is days after a game.

The N.F.L. is a business with profits built on the backs of its talent. Especially when it comes to its highest paid employees, it needs a healthy work force, at least in the short term. Cognizant of that reality, the league has taken dozens of steps to try to keep the stars it has developed on the field exhibiting their extraordinary athletic gifts.

But anyone watching football understands some essential truths. Although the modern player is bigger, faster and stronger, the rudiments of the game – blocking and tackling – have not changed and most likely never will.

It is a combination, regardless of how thick the rule book gets, that will forever make it impossible to prevent the game’s top stars from being injured.

Some days will just be worse than others. Sunday happened to be one of them.

CARSON, Calif. — At the moment the public-address announcer asked fans to rise and kindly remove their caps for the national anthem, the men’s room behind Section 108 was in full use, with dozens more waiting in a line that streamed out the door.

At the concession stand, beers kept pouring. Cash kept changing hands. The 11 metal detectors here at the StubHub Center’s entry gates each had more than 50 people lined up to come through. The machines kept beeping.

Most removed their caps, but not all did. A young man with a rubber Eagle mask (the Los Angeles Chargers were playing the Philadelphia Eagles) kept it propped on his head. A girl spooned a slushy concoction into her mouth, turning her lips blue. A man and woman nudged their way through those standing still and talked through the song about the best way to find their seats the moment it ended. They did not want to miss the kickoff.

As players continue being judged by their postures during “The Star-Spangled Banner,” perhaps it is fair to turn the lens around. Those who have spent a lot of time in stadiums and arenas know that they are rarely sanctuaries of patriotic conformity and decorum.

Across the N.F.L. on Sunday, the scenes were familiar, starting long before the games began. Anthem singers rehearsed their renditions in empty places like M & T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, and the words and melody carried deep into the surrounding parking lots, which were thick with revelers and barbecue smoke. When the song swept through, tailgaters continued eating, drinking and playing games, unmoved. It was not the time or place to pause for the national anthem, apparently.

Fans were much more attentive in the minutes before the game, at least in the seating areas. On a large, wide walkway at the open end of the New England Patriots’ Gillette Stadium directly overlooking the field, several dozen fans ambled around during the anthem, indifferent to the song or the presentation of the flag by a color guard on the field.

At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., a steady flow of men entered and exited the restroom during the anthem, though it was audible through the concourse. Of the hundreds who passed near the aisle leading to Sections 103 and 104, a tiny percentage stopped, removed their hats and held their hands on their hearts. People in concession lines continued their transactions.

At AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Tex., where the Dallas Cowboys were playing the Los Angeles Rams, many fans raised their arms during the anthem — some in a fist as a sign of protest, perhaps, but far more holding a cellphone high to better record what the players were doing.

Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers wryly noted the contradictions inherent in the anthem-respect debate when he posted a photograph on Instagram last week, showing photographers crouched at the feet of Rodgers and his teammates, aiming cameras at them.

“I can’t imagine what kind of social media attacks these cameramen must be enduring after taking a knee during the anthem and wearing a hat,” Rodgers wrote.

If nothing else, an air of anticipation surrounds the anthem now, whether borne of patriotism or of curiosity.

But as part of the game-day experience, the anthem has always meant different things to different people. For some, it is something to cherish; for others, something to endure. For most, it is the biggest signal that the game is about to start.

Until the past couple of weeks, the anthem was rarely seen by television viewers; it was a time for broadcasters to show commercials. At stadiums, seats are usually not yet full.

The anthem itself is a two-minute pause amid the anticipation of a violent game, and guidelines for decorum are mostly unwritten and local. Many fans use the lyrics to express home-team allegiances. Kansas City fans shout that theirs is the home of the “Chiefs!” rather than “the brave” at the end of the song. It is not uncommon for individuals to pierce the pauses between lines to express love for the home team or disdain for the visitors. Imagine a player doing that.

The United States Code, in Title 4, Chapter 1, provides standards for presenting and respecting the American flag. They are not enforceable. After all, in Texas v. Johnson in 1989, the Supreme Court upheld the First-Amendment right to burn the flag.

The code states that military personnel should stand at attention and salute when the flag is raised, lowered, or when it passes, and others “should face the flag and stand at attention with their right hand over the heart, or if applicable, remove their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being over the heart.”

If you have been to an N.F.L. stadium, you have probably noticed many in the crowd doing that. You have probably noticed plenty of others not.

The current controversy began last year when one of the N.F.L’s roughly 1,700 players sat for the national anthem. The player, quarterback Colin Kaepernick, soon shifted to kneeling instead of sitting, and he was clear about his motivation: To call attention to racial injustice, including a string of killings of unarmed African-Americans by the police.

His position — the physical one, at least — angered many Americans. Critics said his mere posture was the ultimate sign of disrespect.

Yet as he knelt, Kaepernick faced the flag and solemnly kept his gaze ahead. He appeared to pay attention to the proceedings. He was not on his phone, he was not in a beer line, he was not chewing on nachos — all things that occur countless times during an anthem at just about any sporting event in this country.

Still, the cause has remained at the forefront of the national discourse, as President Trump again trumpeted the issue through the weekend, beginning with a tweet on Saturday evening.

“Very important that NFL players STAND tomorrow, and always, for the playing of our National Anthem,” he wrote. “Respect our Flag and our Country!”

So what counts as appropriate, and who decides? What if your hands are full because you do not have a place to set your hot dogs? What if your hat is part of the costume and cannot be removed easily? One man in at the Atlanta Falcons’ game on Sunday wore a red, white and blue mask over his face during the anthem, raising the question of whether a wrong can ever be a right.

Can you scratch an itch? Take a sip? Look at a text? Can you nod at the beer vendor so that he’ll sell you a drink when the song is over?

What if you are on the concourse, out of view of the field? Can you keep walking? Can you continue to use the urinal if you hear the anthem through the bathroom doors?

Is the most important part to “stand,” or to be “at attention?” Because Kaepernick, and most who have knelt since, broke only one of these quasi-rules.

Many — including the president, most pointedly — have criticized the N.F.L. for creating the debate by not requiring players to stand at attention. Others suggest that the flap would not have arisen had the N.F.L. not required teams to be on the field for the anthem, a mandate that began in 2009.

The sports world’s trend toward big productions often overwhelms out the nobility and solemnity of the anthem. For example, the code also says that the flag “should never be carried flat or horizontally.” The code does not specify if it is appropriate for a flag 100 yards long to be held parallel to the ground, or shaken by the people holding it when the anthem gets to lyric “that star-spangled banner yet wave,” and then wadded up hastily to make way for a game about to start.

The code states that the flag should not be worn as a costume, but “a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of military personnel, fire fighters, police officers, and members of patriotic organizations.” The N.F.L., apparently, has deemed itself one of those, as U.S. flag decals adorning the back of player helmets.

It can be hard to know what counts as right anymore, and opinions are about as numerous as fans themselves. Some Jets fans at MetLife Stadium Stadium wore green T-shirts reading “I stand for the national anthem.” Plenty of others around the nation wore replicas of Kaepernick’s No. 7 with the 49ers.

In Baltimore, fans and players mostly stood in solemn respect during the anthem. Before it started, however, the Ravens knelt together to pray for “kindness, unity, equality and justice for all Americans.”

The players were booed by fans — those who were not making a last-minute stop for the bathroom or a beer, at least, before kickoff.