U.S.A. Hockey has postponed the start of the women’s national team’s world championship training camp amid an ongoing wage dispute. U.S.A. Hockey said the camp originally scheduled to begin Wednesday in Traverse City, Mich., won’t happen.

The organization “anticipates” a training camp in Plymouth, Mich., site of the upcoming International Ice Hockey Federation Women’s world championship.

Players announced last week that they would boycott the tournament unless they made significant progress with U.S.A. Hockey in negotiations on a labor deal. The sides met for more than 10 hours on Monday, and John Langel, a lawyer for the players, said that the next meeting would be by phone but has not been scheduled yet.

U.S.A. Hockey and players called Monday’s talks “productive,” and forward Jocelyne Lamoureux-Davidson said the team was “hopeful” about reaching an agreement. Without a deal, it is not clear when a potential training camp might begin or how long it would run.

The camp was supposed to go from Wednesday through March 28 and include an exhibition game Saturday against Finland that also won’t take place. The tournament begins March 31. The United States is the defending champion.

The N.F.L. is making plans to speed up the pace of games, including changing how video replays are handled and using a time clock for extra points. The league also is discussing with the TV networks how to make commercial breaks less intrusive.

For officiating replays, the referee no longer would go under a hood to watch a play. Instead, a tablet would be brought to him on the field and he would consult with league headquarters in New York. The final call would be made in New York.

Support by 75 percent of the 32 team owners would be needed at next week’s annual meetings for passage of the proposals.

In addition to a time clock for extra points when there is no TV break, the league is considering instituting a play clock after a touchdown. Also, to improve the flow of games on the field and for television audiences, commercial breaks would be reduced from 21 per game to 16, although each would last 30 seconds longer.

The black San Francisco Giants T-shirt that Barry Bonds wore was so new, the fold lines from being wrapped in plastic were easy to spot. Still, it seemed a natural fit for Bonds, who donned a Giants uniform for his first day of work in his new role with the club, a hitting instructor and special adviser to the chief executive Larry Baer.

The job began Wednesday with a week in Arizona working with the major league hitting coach Hensley Meulens and the minor leaguers at spring training. Then Bonds will become an ambassador of sorts for the Giants, representing the team at various community and club events.

“Any role that they want, that’s what I’ll do,” Bonds said. “All I’ve ever wanted to be is a Giant.”

Bonds drew loud applause as he walked onto the field toward the visitors’ dugout at Maryvale Baseball Park before the Giants faced the Milwaukee Brewers in an exhibition game.

A sports doctor at Michigan State sexually assaulted a teenage gymnast during treatments for back pain in 2000, according to a campus investigation that’s separate from a criminal probe and a blizzard of lawsuits against him.

The conclusion by Michigan State’s Office of Institutional Equity could hurt the university as it defends itself against lawsuits by dozens of women and girls who visited Dr. Larry Nassar for sports injuries. He also was a doctor at Indianapolis-based U.S.A. Gymnastics, which trains Olympians.

The report stems from allegations made by Rachael Denhollander of Louisville, Ky., who has publicly identified herself as a victim.

The Philadelphia 76ers say center Joel Embiid will undergo surgery on a torn meniscus in his left knee. The team spokesman Mike Preston said that the 7-foot Embiid, who has been plagued with injuries during his professional career, will have the surgery “in the coming days.”

Embiid missed his first two N.B.A. seasons with a foot injury. He played in 31 games this season, averaging 20.2 points and 7.8 rebounds per game, but has not played since Jan. 27.

ONE-GAME SUSPENSIONS Chicago’s Robin Lopez and Toronto’s Serge Ibaka were suspended one game without pay by the N.B.A. for fighting. Lopez and Ibaka threw punches at one another during the Bulls-Raptors game Tuesday.

Jayson Tatum is leaving Duke after his freshman season to enter the N.B.A. draft. Tatum was second on the team in both scoring (16.8 points) and rebounding (7.3).

CAL’S RABB DECLARES The California star Ivan Rabb will declare for the N.B.A. draft, a move expected since the season began. The 6-foot-11 sophomore forward was Cal’s second-leading scorer at 14 points and top rebounder averaging 10.5 boards.

FLORIDA STATE GUARD MOVING ON Florida State guard Dwayne Bacon is entering the N.B.A. draft. The 6-foot-7 sophomore guard led the Seminoles in scoring the past two years.

If you’re deciding which art fairs to attend this weekend, consider this. In addition to its assembly of 105 dealers of art by the young, restless and eager to please, NADA (New Art Dealers Alliance) New York has something no others have: basketball. In recognition of the exhibition’s temporary occupation of Basketball City, NADA Hoops is organizing a three-on-three pickup basketball tournament on outdoor courts. The artist Tyson Reeder has designed balls for the occasion. His limited edition “4-Color Pen Ball” (2016) has each of its panels filled in with scribbles in one of four standard, ballpoint pen colors: red, green, black and blue. Examples are on display in the fair and will be used on the courts. As for art, it’s a fun show. Here are a few highlights, listed by gallery:

The Landing The most arresting piece in an excellent, five-artist show of funky ceramic sculptures is Sally Saul’s “The Attack” (2016), a politically wishful arrangement in six parts on a square pedestal. At the center is a richly glazed double portrait of the billionaire Koch brothers tongue kissing while five tarantulas surround them and a tsunami looms in the background. Ms. Saul, who happens to be married to the painter Peter Saul, is an artist past due for wider recognition. Also here is an unusual collaboration between the ceramist Clayton Bailey and Mr. Saul. “The Mad Doctor’s Operation” (1974) is an approximately half life-size representation of cartoon surgeons cutting a female patient to pieces on a hospital operating table. It looks as if it materialized out of the deranged mind of an underground comic book artist. Noteworthy as well are the small, subtly comical representations of biblical scenes by Hannah Greely.

Neochrome In a solo presentation, the sculptor Jamie Sneider offers an elegant, obliquely feminist contribution to the never-ending tradition of riffing on Marcel Duchamp’s “Fountain” of 1917. “Untitled (Black/White)” consists of three nearly identical paintings made of fine, loosely stretched and slightly wrinkled fabric, a rectangle of black above one of white. These are separated by two metal partitions of the sort you see between men’s room urinals, making the whole thing a suave allegory of male privilege.

Alden Projects The centerpiece of a historical show of mail art is Eleanor Antin’s “100 Boots” (1971-73). Each of 51 postcards depicts a different stage in the journey of 100 black rubber boots that Ms. Antin set up and photographed in places from California to New York. The penultimate card shows them lined up on the sidewalk outside the Museum of Modern Art waiting to get in. This is a classic work of 1970s avant-gardism.

Formato Comodo The bracingly bumptious sculpture “blogface” (2016), by Daniel Boccato, is a crudely made, all-green construction of epoxy, fiberglass and polyurethane vaguely resembling the visage of a one-eyed, big-mouthed cartoon monster. It’s dumb in a smart way.

The Pit Testing the limits of sophisticated taste is a trio of wacky sculptures made with old-world craftsmanship by Andrew Sexton. “Fantasy Forging Station” (2016) is a squat figure with a bronze head in the form of an anvil with bugging eyes and a toothy grin. This goofy creature has a torso made from a stout, real log, and it has three splayed legs ending in bony feet with long-nailed toes. A skeletal hand holds up an eyeglasses frame and mustache like one the artist himself sports, making the whole sculpture a cheerfully demonic self-portrait.

Edel Assanti “Sunset,” 2016, one of Dale Lewis’s mural scale, panoramic paintings here, depicts a lounge at the Chateau Marmont, the famous West Hollywood hotel on Sunset Boulevard, populated by nearly a dozen disreputable-looking hedonists and two animated skeletons. The ghost of John Belushi, who died of a drug overdose at the hotel, is tending bar. In a slashing, cartoon expressionist style, Mr. Lewis conjures the mordant spirits of social satirists like James Ensor and George Grosz. He could be Red Grooms’s punk nephew.

11R An exceptionally resonant two-person show here features sculptures by Sarah Peters and works on paper by Marsha Cottrell, both of whom traffic in mystery, albeit in different ways. Ms. Peters’s two works are bronze, hollow-eyed, open-mouthed heads resembling Art Deco versions of archaic Greek sculptures but with exaggerated coiffures adding a weird, surrealistic dimension. Ms. Cottrell uses a computer and printer to create light-suffused abstractions in black and off-white that look as if they’d been made by a 19th-century photographer-alchemist.

Rod Bianco Sports fans will appreciate Grear Patterson’s “Del bomber babe” (2016), which consists of a child-size Radio Flyer wheelbarrow and a pile of 714 baseballs, one for each of Babe Ruth’s career home runs. This is sculpture with a sense of history.

To the Sports Editor:

Re: “The Ultimate Pursuit in Hunting: Sheep,” Feb. 19: I am sure that you received many letters upset about the article about sheep hunting. After all, as a society we seem to be looking for opportunities to be outraged and offended. But if the outraged readers actually read the article, they would discover that hunting, and the money its participants contributed to conservation, actually caused a significant increase in the sheep population. Although I am not a big-game hunter, I am proud that hunters are in fact responsible for many of the increases in our wildlife populations.

Ken Cutler, Edina, Minn.

To the Sports Editor:

Too bad the money can’t go to the preservation of sheep without killing them. Why do people like killing animals? An article discussing the pleasure of slaughter would be interesting. I am not trying to take sides (though you can guess mine) but would like to understand why humans kill animals purely for fun. For hunger I can understand. For survival. Even for overpopulation. But taking life — beautiful life, often successful, appropriate life — just to be a happy person is a mystery to me.

Alexandra Moffat, Orford, N.H.

To the Sports Editor:

Hunting bighorn sheep might be, just perhaps, considered sporting if the sheep were as well guided, well equipped and well armed as those supposed “sportsmen” who stalk them.

D.K. AUSTIN, Dallas

To the Sports Editor:

Re: “This A.C.C. Might Be the Best Basketball League Ever,” Feb. 22: Marc Tracy must be dealing in “alternative facts” when he suggests that the 2016-17 version of the A.C.C. might be the best league ever. The facts suggest otherwise.

To make it simple, A.C.C. teams have played only 18 games against current Top 25 opponents from outside the conference. In these games, the A.C.C. was 7-11, with the most notable victory being Louisville’s win against No. 11 Kentucky. The conference’s other victories were against teams ranked Nos. 13, 14, 16, 24 and 25. The A.C.C. is a collection of mediocre teams, and most likely will not produce a Final Four team.

Allen Pinto, Danbury, Conn.

Michael Grabner scored on a breakaway with 17 seconds left, and the Rangers rallied for a dramatic 5-4 victory at Columbus on Saturday, handing the Blue Jackets their second straight loss after a 16-game winning streak.

The shot, through Curtis McElhinney’s pads, capped a comeback that included three unanswered third-period goals from the Rangers. Grabner and Adam Clendening each had two goals for the Rangers, who moved to a point behind Columbus at the top of the Metropolitan Division.

ISLANDERS LOSE SHOOTOUT Anthony Duclair and Radim Vrbata scored in a shootout, and host Arizona beat the Islanders, 2-1, to end a nine-game losing streak. The Islanders outshot the Coyotes by 6-1 in overtime, including two shots from Shane Price that went off the goal frame.

DEVILS FALL IN OVERTIME Mark Letestu scored a power-play goal 3 minutes 59 seconds into overtime as visiting Edmonton beat the Devils, 2-1. Cory Schneider made 41 saves for the Devils, and Miles Wood scored.

Russell Westbrook had 32 points, 17 rebounds and 11 assists for his 17th triple-double of the season, and the Oklahoma City Thunder beat the visiting Denver Nuggets, 121-106, to end a three-game losing streak. Westbrook matched his season high in rebounds in the 54th triple-double of his career. The Thunder improved to 32-3 over the past two seasons when Westbrook gets a triple-double.

CLEVELAND ADDS KORVER The Cleveland Cavaliers acquired Kyle Korver, one of the N.B.A.’s best 3-point shooters, from the Atlanta Hawks. The Cavaliers traded forward Mike Dunleavy, guard Mo Williams, cash and a protected future first-round draft pick to the Hawks.

Justin Thomas took the lead by driving the 14th green for an eagle and shot a six-under-par 67 for the third straight round to take a two-shot lead going into the final round of the Tournament of Champions in Kapalua, Hawaii.

Khalid Abdullah ran for 101 yards and two touchdowns as James Madison won its second Football Championship Subdivision title, beating Youngstown State, 28-14, in Frisco, Tex.

James Madison had ended North Dakota State’s streak of five straight titles with a victory in the semifinals before beating Youngstown State, a four-time champion.

Quarterback Bryan Schor threw two touchdown passes in the first six minutes for the Dukes, who won their other championship in 2004.

Jayson Tatum scored a season-high 22 points, and Jeff Capel filled in capably for Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski as the Blue Devils beat visiting Boston College, 93-82.

Boston College trailed by 25 before cutting the Blue Devils’ lead to 88-82 with 44.1 seconds left. But the Eagles (8-8, 1-2 Atlantic Coast Conference) failed to score on three straight possessions, and Tatum hit four foul shots in the final 42 seconds to give the Blue Devils (14-2, 2-1) a victory in their first game without Krzyzewski since 1995.

Capel, a former Duke guard, will lead the Blue Devils while Krzyzewski, who had back surgery Friday, recovers.

Second-ranked Novak Djokovic defeated top-ranked Andy Murray, 6-3, 5-7, 6-4, to win the Qatar Open in Doha.

Djokovic missed three match points and had to repel a roaring comeback by Murray before ending Murray’s 28-match, five-tournament winning streak.

PLISKOVA DOMINATES Karolina Pliskova won all but five points in the first six games to set up a 6-0, 6-3 rout of Alizé Cornet in the Brisbane International final in Australia.

Wayne Rooney stands one goal from becoming Manchester United’s career scoring leader, having equaled the franchise record of 249, set by Bobby Charlton.

With Charlton, 79, watching from the stands, Rooney guided in a Juan Mata cross after seven minutes as host United, the defending F.A. Cup champion, swept aside second-tier Reading, 4-0, in the third round of the tournament.

REAL MADRID’S STREAK GROWS With a 5-0 rout of visiting Granada, Real Madrid tied Barcelona’s Spanish league record of 39 games in all competitions without a defeat.

Alexis Pinturault held off Marcel Hirscher to win Switzerland’s classic giant slalom in Adelboden. With his 19th career World Cup win, Pinturault, 25, broke a tie with Jean-Claude Killy for the most victories by a Frenchman.

WORLEY WINS AGAIN The giant slalom specialist Tessa Worley captured her third victory of the season and the 11th of her career, a French record, in Maribor, Slovenia.

NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. — Ah, how grandness beckoned. When Rutgers officials announced in 2012 that their university would join the Big Ten, one of the nation’s premier athletic conferences, the sun itself seemed to burn brighter.

Teams from Rutgers, New Jersey’s state university, would battle mighty Ohio State and Michigan. High school seniors would forward applications by the truckload. And the money from those gilded television contracts — oh, good God, that money would pour in.

“It’s a transformative day for Rutgers University,” Tim Pernetti, the athletic director then, told reporters.

I recently placed a call to Mark Killingsworth, a Rutgers economics professor and football fan, and asked about that transformation. He sighed. He had led a faculty revolt against Rutgers’s money loser of an athletic department, which continues to siphon off tens of millions of dollars intended for academics.

Rutgers is a fine school, but David Hughes, an anthropology professor and the president of the faculty union, noted that 30 percent of the curriculum is taught by contract teachers, many of them paid like piecework seamstresses. And Rutgers’s tuition costs rank high nationally.

“It’s not rocket science; this program is a mess,” Killingsworth said of the athletic program. “We are not champions at much, but our deficit is the biggest in the Big Ten.”

The faculty council is set to vote on a motion deploring this state of affairs. The athletic department has run an annual deficit of at least $20 million since 2006; its current deficit is slightly larger than the sum of all the deficits in every other Big Ten athletic department.

All of which brings us to the athletic department’s 2016 financial report to the N.C.A.A. The Star-Ledger obtained this document recently; it showed a blood-red deficit of $28.6 million. The 64-page report had a one-line notation: “Other Operating Revenue: $10,495,912.”

It turned out that the university bank quietly lent $10.5 million to the athletic department to keep it afloat and pay severance costs for expensive and failed coaches. That loan came weighted with an interest rate of 5.75 percent; the cost of repaying it will run north of $18 million, according to university documents.

Rutgers also diverted $11 million in student fees and $17.1 million from its general fund to cover the athletic shortfall. The average undergraduate now pays more than $300 in activities fees exclusively for the university’s N.C.A.A. teams.

This is the section of this column I customarily would set aside for Rutgers officials to respond. They could slice and dice numbers, and explain why the ink is not as crimson as it appears. They could assert the department is run with a steely hand on the tiller.

Late last month, I requested an interview with the athletic director, Patrick Hobbs. A day later, I also asked to speak with the president, Robert Barchi. These requests were met with silence.

On Thursday, I asked again, and a spokeswoman offered an off-the-record interview with Hobbs. I declined. An email statement soon arrived, saying in part, “Rutgers Athletics will be in a position to generate a positive cash flow for the university after we receive our full share of Big Ten revenues in 2021.”

Let me translate: That the athletic department has been run with no regard for sound financial practice is a trifle. Soon enough, piles of dough from the Big Ten’s billion-dollar-plus television contract will be deposited on the front steps of the athletic department. Its take could amount to $40 million.

This is like handing Jesse James the keys to Fort Knox.

Deficits are not the only problem plaguing Rutgers athletics. Its football and basketball teams are impressively scandal-scarred. Here is a brief recap:

In 2012, not long after Rutgers announced it was joining the Big Ten, Pernetti, as athletic director, received a video that showed the Scarlet Knights’ basketball coach, Mike Rice Jr., berating his players and using homophobic slurs. For punctuation, the coach hurled basketballs at their heads. Eventually Pernetti suspended Rice for a few games. A few months later, ESPN obtained and broadcast the video. This time, Pernetti fired Rice.

Alas, this was too late. Pernetti, who engineered Rutgers’s entrance into the Big Ten, tumbled out the door, followed by the university’s general counsel.

Barchi, the president, hired Julie Hermann as athletic director. He described her as “one of the most respected athletic administrators in the country.” Her pay and benefits were nearly half a million dollars.

More or less immediately, it was reported that Hermann, who earlier served as the volleyball coach at Tennessee, had demeaned her players as “whores, alcoholics and learning disabled.”

Hermann was shown the door in 2015 in a purge that also claimed Kyle Flood, the football coach.

Flood was accused of trying to persuade a dance appreciation teacher to change a failing grade for one of his players. Seven of his players were arrested, on charges including armed burglary and an unprovoked punch that broke a student’s jaw. An additional 16 players tested positive for banned substances, reportedly marijuana, which under university rules merited suspensions. The football staff covered this up.

More seriously, Rutgers, like other “big-time” schools, chooses pretty female students as “ambassadors” to show male recruits around campus. The N.C.A.A. has accused Rutgers of allowing two ambassadors to meet with the recruits in dorm rooms, which is prohibited.

Rutgers’s fired athletic officials will draw severance payments for years to come. Hermann is owed about $1.2 million over the next two years. Flood will pull down $2.1 million. Eddie Jordan, the basketball coach who, refreshingly, was fired for losing rather than for abusing his players, will receive almost $1.9 million.

Hence the athletic department’s need for a loan.

Pernetti no longer draws a university check. No wolf has arrived at his door. In one of his last acts as athletic director, he persuaded Rutgers to pay $7 million to end its contract with a sports marketing firm. Shortly after he was fired, Rutgers signed an 11-year, $65 million contract with IMG College to handle sports marketing for the university.

Two years ago, IMG hired Pernetti as president for multimedia, covering Rutgers and other colleges.

An intriguing aspect of Rutgers’s dive into big-time sports is that each time a coach or an athletic director left soaked in scandal, the successor received more money. The departed football coach made $1.25 million; the new coach makes $2 million. The departed basketball coach made about $1.1 million; the new coach makes $1.6 million.

As athletic director, Hobbs earns $110,000 more per year than Hermann did. Hobbs is quick-witted. He described the piling up of severance payments to dismissed coaches as “investments that need to be made.”

Hobbs once served as dean of Seton Hall’s law school, where he displayed a gift for fund-raising and an impressive ear for politics. Over the years, Jon Corzine, the former New Jersey senator and governor, had donated $1 million to Seton Hall. In 2004, his girlfriend, Carla Katz, applied to Seton Hall’s law school. He wrote a letter of recommendation for her.

Katz was president of the state’s largest public employees’ union. The law school awarded her a coveted presidential scholarship. Hobbs said he had no idea Corzine had written a letter of recommendation. He took exception to suggestions that a law school student “could receive a scholarship as a favor.”

Gov. Chris Christie was a graduate of the Seton Hall law school and a donor to his alma mater. When he served as a federal prosecutor, he got to know Hobbs. After an investigation of Bristol-Myers Squibb in 2005, Christie’s office cut a deal. It would not charge the company with securities fraud, and in exchange the company would pay a fine to fund a $5 million professorship of business ethics at the law school. (The Justice Department since has barred this practice, out of concern that prosecutors would start creating what it called “summer camps” at favored institutions.)

When Christie was elected governor, he appointed Hobbs to his transition committee. After that unfortunate business with the George Washington Bridge, he made Hobbs his $75,600-a-year part-time ombudsman. Hobbs had no office in the Capitol and produced no public work product.

A month ago, Hobbs and Killingsworth, the economics professor, agreed to answer questions for NJ.com, in a de facto email debate. Hobbs waxed joyful.

“Our teams and student-athletes have enjoyed a great deal of success in the Big Ten,” he said, citing women’s soccer, wrestling and lacrosse.

These are fine sports. The Big Ten, however, prays at the altar of the grand moneymakers, football and basketball. The Rutgers football team finished 2-10 over all in 2016, 0-9 in the Big Ten. The men’s basketball team, Hobbs noted, got off to a fine 11-1 start. Alas, the team was beating up on mugs. When it stepped into the maw of the Big Ten season, Rutgers won three games and lost 15 before going 1-1 in the conference tournament.

“The athletic department has already budgeted for a 2 percent increase in student fees,” Killingsworth said. “I have a novel idea: Why don’t they learn to live within their means?”

That’s a small-time question for a big-time athletic program.

If Barry Rohrssen, 55, the associate head coach for men’s basketball at St. John’s University in Queens, seems a bit preoccupied this weekend, it’s probably because he’s following the news of who will be invited to “the big dance,” as the N.C.A.A. tournament is called. (St. John’s will be sitting this one out.) You might also spot him at church or grocery shopping in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, where he lives with his fiancée, Kerry Parker, 33. Mr. Rohrssen, who is nicknamed Slice, had a minor acting role in the 1992 film “Glengarry Glen Ross.” He said New York “is one of the few towns where you can do something like that; where else do you have opportunities to be a coach and be in a film?”

BREAKFAST OF COACHES I start my Sundays off with breakfast. Basically, every Sunday it’s Frosted Mini-Wheats. It’s like the only day of the week I’ll have them.

SPORTS, SPIRITUALITY, STEAM It’s the one day where I’ll start it watching a television show and end it watching a television show. I always start Sunday watching “The Sports Reporters” on ESPN with Mike Lupica and John Saunders. That goes from 9:30 to 10. At 10 a.m., I’ll watch Joel Osteen. Then right after that, I’ll go to the health club, you know, steam and change.

NEW YORK ROOTS I live in the parish of St. Gabriel’s Church, and they have 11:30 Mass on Sundays. When you are from New York and if you are Catholic, you always kind of grow up with, “Oh, what parish are you from, what parish are you from?” I’m formerly the head coach of Manhattan College. That’s how I wound up in Riverdale. I’ve kept this place for the past decade even throughout my travels, coaching with the Portland Trail Blazers and the University of Pittsburgh and the University of Kentucky, I always proudly maintained my residence in New York.

LOCAL FLAVORS After Mass, my fiancée and I take a ride over to Bronxville, to grab some lunch at Lange’s. After that, it’s usually grocery shopping for the week either in the local Key Food or Whole Foods. Then there is a local Chinese restaurant in Riverdale that we go to every Sunday evening. A place called the Hunan Balcony.

FAMILY TIME Often, I try to see my mom. I try to see her as often as possible and take her to lunch or dinner. She’s now out in Bay Ridge. She’s from Park Slope. She likes to go to Junior’s. We’ve been going there for years, ever since I was young. She started taking me there when I was in grammar school. It just holds a lot of good memories for so many years.

PRE-GAME PREP If we are playing in the Garden, we stay at a hotel in New York City. Depending on what time the game is, what you have is a shootaround or a walk-through. A shootaround lasts about 60 minutes. A walk-through could last 30 minutes, where you are going to walk through some of the things you want to review, opponents, top plays, some things from your own offense.

POST-GAME MEAL A restaurant I enjoy after a game is a place in the Village called Valbella. I also like Peter Luger in Brooklyn. Always with my fiancée and family or friends.

EYE ON THE PRIZE Basketball coaching isn’t just a profession. It’s a lifestyle, and it’s really 24/7, 365. You are on call all the time; you are always doing something with your players. You do have to go recruiting on Sundays, and you do have to go to see games. Recruiting is a year-round job. There’s an old saying: “Recruiting is like shaving. If you miss a day, it can get ugly.”

THE MADNESS In March you like to be playing. That’s why they call it March Madness. Last year, Kentucky, where I coached, was undefeated going into March. Had 38 wins. We were 38 and 0. And we didn’t lose until April in the Final Four. So the goal is always to be playing in March and go as deep into that month as you can.

ENDGAME I try to watch “60 Minutes.” Then I wrap up the evening by watching a gentleman named Bruce Beck on Channel 4. Bruce Beck has a show every Sunday night called “Sports Final.” He goes on about midnight. He does a nice job on the show, especially with the local teams.

Jets cornerback Darrelle Revis turned himself in to the Pittsburgh police Friday on charges that stemmed from a confrontation with at least two men last weekend.

Revis did not answer questions as he entered a Municipal Courts building. He faced counts of aggravated assault, robbery, conspiracy to commit aggravated assault and terroristic threats.

Iran defeated the United States to win the gold medal at the Freestyle World Cup. During the final matches, Iranian wrestlers sealed a 5-3 victory over their American guests in the western Iranian city of Kermanshah.

Earlier in February, Iran reversed its position and allowed American wrestlers to participate in the competition. Iran had barred the Americans after President Trump issued a travel ban, now frozen, on nationals from seven predominantly Muslim countries, including Iran.

Officers with the National Basketball Players Association said that the problems between Charles Oakley and James L. Dolan, the Madison Square Garden chairman, could affect future free agents’ decisions about whether to play for the Knicks.

“I think some guys, for sure, notice it, and some of those guys have made it known that it will affect them,” said the Sacramento Kings’ Anthony Tolliver, a vice president of the players’ association.

The All-Star forward Draymond Green backed off a comment earlier in the week that Dolan displayed a “slave master mentality” toward Oakley, who was removed from the Garden last week by security guards. Green said on ESPN Radio that his remarks “came off the wrong way.”

Oakley has remained busy, and on Friday he was named a player-coach in a three-on-three league founded by Ice Cube that is scheduled to begin June 24.

Devin Cannady had 29 points, including seven 3-pointers, and Princeton beat Yale, 71-52, for its 12th straight win. For the Tigers (16-6, 9-0 Ivy League), it was their first win at Yale (14-8, 6-3) since 2011, and they have a two-game lead over Harvard in the league standings.

Larry Nassar, a sports doctor who treated female gymnasts at Michigan State and for U.S.A. Gymnastics, was ordered to stand trial after a woman described sexual abuse she said he committed for years during her childhood.

Judge Donald Allen Jr. of District Court in Ingham County, Mich., found there was enough evidence to try Nassar on charges of first-degree criminal sexual conduct.

CBS News reported that three former members of the national gymnastics team, including an Olympic medalist, had come forward to accuse Nassar of sexual abuse.

Karolina Pliskova and Caroline Wozniacki will meet each other in the Qatar Open final after each won two matches on a soggy and grueling day in Doha.

Pliskova beat Zhang Shuai, 6-2, 6-0, and then Dominika Cibulkova in an exciting 6-4, 4-6, 6-3 semifinal. Wozniacki beat the qualifier Lauren Davies, 7-5, 6-1, and then the Olympic gold medalist Monica Puig by 6-1, 6-2, finishing after midnight.  (AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)

After the race was delayed by an incident involving a military airplane, Marcel Hirscher won a world championship title in giant slalom in St. Moritz, Switzerland.

The race’s decisive second run was pushed back 30 minutes after a Swiss Air Force monoplane struck the cable of a moving overhead television camera. After leading the first run, Hirscher raced through falling snow to hold off Roland Leitinger by 0.25 of a second.