The Cleveland Browns and the Jacksonville Jaguars are two N.F.L. teams few expect to see at the top of any league ranking. Yet those two misbegotten outfits stand together as the teams expected to improve the most this season.

Of course, there is not far to drop. The Browns were 1-15 last year and the Jaguars 3-13. It would take pretty special teams to do even worse.

Bookmakers who set over/under totals on a team’s wins for the season are expecting the Browns to win about four or five games this year, and the Jags seven or so. No other teams are expected to improve so much.

The gravity of football, along with other American pro sports, is toward the center. Teams that lose a lot tend to improve, at least a little, while teams with the best records tend to slip a bit.

Take the Dallas Cowboys, who won 13 games last season. Oddsmakers expect them to win only 9 to 10 this season, the biggest projected fall. Part of the reason is a six-game suspension for the Cowboys’ star running back, Ezekiel Elliott, but the projected decline also has statistical precedent: teams that do particularly well in one season just tend to get a little worse the next one.

The draft is one equalizer. The Browns and the Jaguars each had top-four picks in April’s draft, while the Cowboys did not pick until No. 28. Good teams also can be hampered by tougher schedules — the penalty for a big year — and salary cap issues.

Other teams expected to improve this season include the Panthers (6-10 last season), the Bears (3-13), the Chargers (5-11) and the 49ers (2-14). Those expected to decline include the Chiefs (12-4) and the Dolphins (10-6).

There is one near-exception: the Patriots. New England was 14-2 and won the Super Bowl last season, but is not predicted to slip very much. Most bookmakers have the Patriots projected at 13 wins. This is partly because they are expected to have Tom Brady available for the entire regular season, after relying on Jimmy Garoppolo and Jacoby Brissett during his four-game suspension last season. Or maybe it is just because they are the Patriots, and because they have won at least 12 games every season since going 10-6 in 2009.

So let’s modify that theory. In professional sports, good teams tend to slip and bad teams tend to improve. Except for the Patriots. They are always a safe bet to keep on winning.

Not long after the owner Mark Davis of the Raiders got the green light from the other owners of N.F.L. teams to leave Oakland and move to Las Vegas, he sought to make things right with the passionate, sometimes rancorous hometown fans.

He wandered through the lobby of the Biltmore Hotel in Phoenix, where the vote took place on Monday, and found Godfather Griz Jones, the leader of Forever Oakland, one of the team’s most fervent fan groups. Dressed in a white shirt, white tie and jacket, Davis reached out to shake Jones’s hand, but he was rebuffed.

Davis told Jones he wanted to talk about “the team’s future” and how to work together to support the Raiders in their new digs in the desert.

“There is no future,” Jones said. Conversation closed.

The Raiders most certainly have a future, but it will be rocky in the short term and uncertain in the long term.

The team has one of the most loyal local followings in the N.F.L., yet that loyalty will be tested like never before. Fans in Oakland were bitter when the Raiders moved to Los Angeles in 1982. But the team won a third Super Bowl title, and a new generation of fans there and elsewhere bloomed, many of them probably willing to trek to Las Vegas for games. And ultimately, in 1995, the Raiders returned to the city where they were born, so there was a happy ending.

This move is far different. Las Vegas is much smaller, has no real football tradition and is best known for its casinos and all-you-can-eat buffets. The relocation feels like the money grab it is. Davis and the other N.F.L. owners said they were impressed with the city’s potential, but what persuaded them most was the $750 million tax subsidy lawmakers in Nevada will provide for a big, modern stadium with suites, fancy restaurants and concession stands, not to mention the prospect of a marquee naming-rights partner and other financial benefits.

Fans might not care about such amenities, but in the money-first N.F.L., the other 31 owners certainly do because they receive a cut of what every team generates in its stadium. The Raiders have been near the bottom in the amount of revenue they have produced in their deteriorating stadium, which is more than 50 years old.

The Raiders will also have to pay a relocation fee of almost $400 million that will be split evenly among the teams.

A new domed stadium in Las Vegas would also be a candidate to host a Super Bowl, bringing one of the biggest media and sports events — and the financial boon that comes with it — to one of the biggest entertainment zones in the country.

The owner Jerry Jones of the Dallas Cowboys, a power broker in the league who embraced and pushed the move, had an extra incentive. He owns half of Legends, a marketing and hospitality company. Last year, he persuaded the owners to let the Rams move to Los Angeles, and his company won the contract for the new stadium the Rams are building there. Jones pulled off the same daily double with the Raiders.

After a decade and a half of stability, the N.F.L. has approved three relocations in just 15 months. So many teams have relatively new stadiums that there are unlikely to be any major moves domestically for a while.

The owners, though, are interested in markets overseas, particularly London, where teams have played regular-season games since 2007. The Jacksonville Jaguars, who play in a small television market, have adopted London as their second home, and in theory, they would be first in line to move there if the owners decided to expand the league’s geographic footprint. Not coincidentally, the Jaguars, like the Raiders, are nearly last in revenue produced from their home games.

None of this matters to the aggrieved fans in Oakland. The more curious reaction came in Las Vegas.

There, lawmakers made the obligatory statements of congratulations, and Raiders fans rejoiced on the Strip. But Bill Foley, who paid $500 million for a new N.H.L. franchise that will be the first major pro team in Las Vegas when it begins play this year in a privately built hockey arena, rained on the Raiders’ parade when he questioned the wisdom of spending so much money to lure a football team.

“I felt like there were a lot of better ways to spend $750 million than bringing the Raiders to Las Vegas,” he told Vegas Hockey Hotline, a radio show. “We could spend it on police, firefighters and teachers and have them all be the best in the country. But I guess we’re going to spend it on the Raiders.”

Then there was Raiders quarterback Derek Carr, a California native.

“I don’t know how we should feel,” he wrote in a statement posted on Twitter. “I feel the pain of our fans in Oakland. I also see the joy on the faces of our new fans in Las Vegas.”

Oakland will continue to feel the Raiders’ pain. Taxpayers there still have to pay off nearly $100 million in debt to cover improvements to the Coliseum made more than 20 years ago to lure the Raiders back from Los Angeles.

And Oakland, like San Diego and St. Louis, which also lost teams in the past year or so, will now be invoked by other N.F.L. owners when they are unable to wrest concessions out of lawmakers in their home markets. For years, Los Angeles played that role, allowing owners to threaten to move there if they did not get subsidies to stay.

The new stadium is projected to be ready in 2020, and the Raiders’ current lease expires after the 2018 season, meaning Oakland fans may get two more seasons unless the team departs sooner to play in temporary quarters in Las Vegas.

Jones, the leader of Forever Oakland, said he would not be traveling to Nevada to watch his beloved team.

Shortly after his ill-fated meeting with Jones, Davis greeted well-wishers at a restaurant in the Biltmore, where he had repaired for lunch. The Sports Illustrated columnist Peter King, who was dining nearby, asked Davis if he had thought at all about his father, Al, who moved the team to Los Angeles and back to Oakland, and who died in 2011.

“I think about him every day,” Davis said, and then he entertained the logical follow-up question: What would Al think of the Raiders in Vegas?

Davis paused for a second and assumed a quizzical look.

“I really don’t know what he would think,” he said.

FARMINGVILLE, N.Y. — It was the first official day of football season at Sachem High School East here, but the field remained empty and silent. The overcast sky bore down on the green grounds; dreary weather on a dreadful day. If not for the accident, Joshua Mileto’s team would have been holding tryouts for the new season.

Instead, hundreds of Sachem East teenagers gathered at the McManus-Lorey Funeral Home, two miles away, to pay final respects to Mr. Mileto, 16. Last week, several football players watched in horror as a 400-pound log struck him on the head during a preseason conditioning practice on the field. On Monday, dressed in black clothes, they hugged one another as they waited in line outside his wake. Some of the players, who wore their team jerseys, held back tears. Others could not.

For many in this tight-knit Long Island community, Mr. Mileto’s death was a tragic accident with no sensible explanation.

But the story has attracted national interest, and an urge on social media to assign blame has brought a flood of commentary. The criticism has focused on several facts: Mr. Mileto, a junior, and several other athletes were attempting a conditioning exercise used to train Navy SEALs, which involved carrying a 400-pound log above their heads. But SEAL training teams of five or more men typically lift logs that weigh about 200 pounds — and the Sachem football players were teenagers, not military recruits.

Dr. Douglas Casa, a national expert on sports conditioning, said he had never heard of the log drill being used in football practice at the high school level. He said that in 20 years in the field, the only time he encountered the drill was as an expert witness in a court case after a high school wrestler died from heat stroke following the exercise. (Dr. Casa estimated that he had been an expert witness in over 40 cases in which athletes have died.)

“My immediate thought is that Navy SEAL training is brutally hard, generally, for men in the mid-20s who are some of the best athletes in the whole world. And most of them don’t make it through the training,” said Dr. Casa, the chief executive of the Korey Stringer Institute, an organization based in Connecticut focused on preventing athletes’ deaths. “Most of the best athletes in the world can’t make it through. This is not a good idea for kids to be doing.”

The attention has provoked a sense of defensiveness in the Sachem East community, which includes several mostly white, middle-class towns on Long Island. (Sachem East is one of two high schools in the district; Farmingville is part of the larger town of Brookhaven.) As they grieved, Sachem parents and students remained careful not to point fingers and were protective of the coaches overseeing the training camp where Mr. Mileto died. Many insisted the community needed to grieve before turning to the cause of the fatal accident.

“After he passed, people started gravitating to asking, ‘What if we had done this? What if we had done that? What if we didn’t do that drill?’ But that’s the same thing that happens in any tragedy,” said Ryan Leone, 20, a recent Sachem East graduate who was on the field visiting when Mr. Mileto was fatally injured. He helped the coaches, whom he knew, provide emergency aid to Mr. Mileto.

“These coaches would not have done something that they didn’t feel comfortable supervising or that would hurt the kids,” Mr. Leone said. “I think it’s just wrong to look at it from that perspective.”

“The biggest concern was someone stubbing their toe,” he added. “This just wasn’t being done in an unsafe way.”

The accident happened just after 8:30 a.m. on Aug. 10. Mr. Leone said he was startled when someone shouted repeatedly, “Coach, call 9-1-1!” Mr. Leone sprinted toward the commotion and joined several adults and coaches attempting to treat Mr. Mileto, whose face was covered in blood.

One coach, Chris Di’Iorio, performed CPR as Mariano Gonzalez, the team’s trainer, applied pressure to the wound. Mr. Leone and another coach tried to keep Mr. Mileto breathing. but according to Mr. Leone, they could not find a pulse.

Mr. Mileto’s mother arrived on the scene soon after he was placed in an ambulance. They drove to Stony Brook University Hospital — she rode in the front seat — where Mr. Mileto was pronounced dead.

The use of the log drill has come under scrutiny particularly because deaths during practice are so rare. Several of the coaches declined to comment for this article — including the head coach, Mark Wojciechowski — and it was not clear if the team had performed the log drill before. After initial inquiries by The New York Times about safety protocols to Dr. Ken Graham, the superintendent of the Sachem Central School District, a communications consultant said in an email that the district was not involved in the training camp. Though the practice took place on the school’s field and included the school’s coaches, it was overseen by the Sachem East Touchdown Club, which raises money for the football club. The president and vice president for the club did not return calls requesting comment.

The Associated Press reported on Friday that Mr. Wojciechowski and another member of the coaching staff were being reassigned pending an investigation into the death.

Mr. Mileto’s death does not neatly fit into the existing national conversation about the safety of contact football, which centers primarily on preventing and treating concussions. But it does raise some of the same concerns those involved in youth sports often cite, including how hard coaches push youngsters during training or whether they take unnecessary risks for the sake of gaining an edge.

More than a million high school athletes play tackle football each year across the country. While injuries are common, deaths are rare, and traumatic-injury deaths typically happen during games rather than training sessions, said Dr. Kristen Kucera, a sports science expert and the director of the National Center for Catastrophic Sport Injury Research at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Dr. Kucera said she had not previously heard of high school students using a log to train.

Dr. Casa said it was unfortunate that there was no national governing body for high school sports, as there is for college sports, that can regulate safety standards for practices. Instead, the process is handled by state associations with varying degrees of efficacy. He also worried that medical experts are not always consulted when local administrators are setting safety standards.

“Medical people don’t set medical policies,” he said. “These are athletic administrators that set policies. That shocks any parent that I tell that.”

And identifying who should have the final say in conversations about safety regulations can also be contentious.

Chris Boone, a spokesman for the National Federation of State High School Associations, said that individual schools, school districts and state associations determine practice regulations through agreements that differ from state to state. Robert Zayas, the executive director of the New York State Public High School Athletic Association, said that the organization does not have any specific rules or regulations that dictate what is permitted in training. He said the association does, however, have standards related to concussion management. “We have a lot of safety measures in place, but no rules and regulations,” he added.

“I’m not going to comment on the conditioning drill that a coach was conducting,” Mr. Zayas said. “The number of drills and conditioning practices that we see throughout New York and throughout the country vary greatly. As teams are conditioning in the off-season, it’s left up to the discretion of the coaches.”

The Sachem Central School District said in a statement on Wednesday that it “will assess the status of the team’s activities over the course of the next several days.” The district said that in addition to a police investigation, an internal district investigation had been opened.

Mr. Leone, who is a junior at the University of Pennsylvania and was visiting home before the new school year, had worked as a coach with middle school students as part of the Sachem East Touchdown Club and knew the coaches on the team. He said he was not sure if the log drill had been used in previous training sessions.

“I think that image deeply affected the coaches that were there,” Mr. Leone said, referring to Mr. Mileto’s injuries. “I just hope they never have to see anything like this again. I keep seeing his face pop into my head.”

Stephanie Caleb, a senior at Sachem East, said that everyone at the school was devastated by the loss. Her boyfriend, who is on the football team, was close with Mr. Mileto. She said that the intense media attention to his death made it difficult to grieve in peace.

There was deep anger at the news media, Ms. Caleb said, “and the news reporters invading everybody’s privacy.”

“It’s not completely wrong to ask for information,” she said, “but showing up and filming everybody outside the funeral, that’s not right.”

Mr. Mileto’s official obituary pulls at the heartstrings. “To Josh his community was a part of his family and the feeling was mutual,” it read. He loved his friends, sports, music and “The Fresh Prince of Bel Air.” He kissed his mother daily, the obituary noted.

“We are absolutely beyond devastated,” wrote his mother, Sayyida Mileto, in a Facebook post. “We are in no way able to respond or speak to anyone at this point.”

Many of his classmates, as teenagers do, expressed their grief on Facebook and Instagram. They posted photo montages with long tributes; they changed their user profiles to include crying emojis and praying hands; they shared photos of him in his football jersey, No. 5, ready to play.

Two high school students in Texas were kicked off their football team on Friday night after they demonstrated during the national anthem to protest racial inequality.

One student, Cedric Ingram-Lewis, 16, raised a fist in the air while the anthem played. The other, Larry McCullough, 18, got down on one knee. In response, their coach told them to hand over their uniforms, The Houston Chronicle reported.

“We had to get our message across: End racial injustice and the oppression of black people,” Mr. Ingram-Lewis said in a phone interview on Sunday.

The coach, Ronnie Mitchem, is the pastor at Victory and Praise Worship Center in Crosby, Tex., and a Marine Corps veteran. In a phone interview on Sunday, he said the teenagers’ demonstration was offensive to people who served in the military.

“I’ve been very patriotic my whole life,” he said. “I believe everybody has a right to protest, and I let those guys do their protests. But the rule was, if you did this protest, you wouldn’t be on the team.”

The two teenagers, who are cousins, decided to demonstrate even though Mr. Mitchem had warned players the day before against protesting, Mr. Ingram-Lewis said. After the anthem, Mr. Mitchem told them to return their uniforms, which they did.

Last year, the N.F.L. quarterback Colin Kaepernick was playing for the San Francisco 49ers when he began kneeling during the anthem to protest racial inequality, attracting national attention. He is now a free agent.

At a political rally in Alabama on Sept. 22, President Trump denounced professional athletes who did not stand during the playing of the anthem. He added that they should be fired and that any team owner who followed his advice would become “the most popular person in the country” for a week.

His comments are part of what prompted widespread demonstrations on Sept. 24, when scores of N.F.L. players knelt, raised a fist or locked arms during the anthem to protest racial inequality, setting off fierce national debates. Last week, several high schools stepped into the fray by warning students not to kneel during the anthem at sports events, with some threatening disciplinary action.

Still, some students were reported kneeling during the anthem in towns across the country, from Vancouver, Wash., to New Brunswick, N.J., to Austin, Tex. In contrast, one team in Fannin County, Ga., had its players carry American flags while running onto the field.

Mr. Mitchem said his football team was a small church-based operation with no high school affiliation.

“They know that when I make a rule, I make a rule,” he said of his players. “I’m trying to teach the guys respect, and in our program, we do more than just play football. We teach guys how to shake hands with somebody, look them in the eye, be a man.”

He said he cared about Mr. Ingram-Lewis and Mr. McCullough and would consider letting them play again as long as they did not protest during the anthem.

Mr. McCullough could not be reached but Mr. Ingram-Lewis said he did not regret leaving the team, adding that his demonstration was not about disrespecting the flag or the military.

“That’s not our intent. That wasn’t Kaepernick’s intent when he first kneeled,” he said. “It was about police brutality and racial injustice.”

VOZNESENKA, Alaska — The football players wore their black and yellow jerseys to class last Friday, a day before the home opener for Voznesenka School, the smallest high school in Alaska to field a team.

But a game required at least 11 players. And so far at practice this summer, the Cougars had fielded no more than 10.

The roster is customarily thin at the beginning of the season in this lush and remote community where sports for boys and girls have progressed carefully, with an evolving balance of contemporary life and the old ways of tradition and religion.

Players were still trickling into school after a summer on commercial fishing boats, drift-netting for salmon with their fathers, brothers, uncles and cousins. For some it had been a record haul for sockeye, a variety of wild salmon known here as reds, and a number of players had been on the water for two months.

Practice began in late July, but it was haphazard. Five players showed up one day, six or seven the next. It went on that way, week after week.

Each absence was acutely felt at a school of 109 students, in prekindergarten through 12th grade, with only 29 in high school. The first game, scheduled on the road for Aug. 17, was canceled. It was Voznesenka’s first forfeit in the five seasons it has played 11-man football, after brief participation in the unofficial, eight-man version.

“Heartbreaking,” said Justin Zank, 34, Voznesenka’s football and wrestling coach.

He laughed grimly.

“I think this season has taken years off my life.”

And it had yet to begin.

But Zank had learned patience in this unincorporated village of about 50 or 60 families on the Kenai Peninsula, more than 200 miles south of Anchorage.

He could not expect high school football to be consuming here, the way it could be in Texas and the Deep South. Voznesenka has no gym and shares a playing field 45 minutes away in the fishing hub of Homer.

Zank improvised by constructing a weight room in his garage, where he also placed a wrestling mat for training. The Cougars had won only four games in four seasons, and the coach took his satisfaction from small improvements, a player’s awakening.

“Here,” he said, “it’s life with football on the side, not football with life on the side.”

Voznesenka is a community of Old Believers, a secluded offshoot of the Russian Orthodox Church that resisted reforms in the mid-17th century and still adheres to traditionalist worship, customs, dietary restrictions and styles of dress.

The local church, with its onion dome, sits next to the school. All students speak English and Russian. Depending on the strategy of a particular football game, placards are sometimes held aloft on the sideline, signaling plays in Cyrillic.

At the head of Kachemak Bay, the pavement ends. Gravel roads dip steeply through spruce forests and purple blossoms of fireweed to the Old Believer villages of Voznesenka, Razdolna and Kachemak Selo, which pool their athletes to sustain teams. Across the bay, glaciers sit atop mountains like alpine sand traps.

Isolation has been long pursued by Old Believers in places like Siberia, China, Brazil, Canada, Oregon and — beginning in the late 1960s — Alaska, as they sought to practice their faith, avoid persecution and escape unwanted influences from the outside world.

Voznesenka was established in 1985, and when the school got its first computer in the early 1990s, parents kept their children home for two weeks in protest, school officials said.

Gradually, as a younger generation had school-age children and technology became more vital to the fishing industry, many in the village began to welcome the internet, smartphones, television and sports — football, wrestling and hockey for boys and, most recently in a male-dominated society, soccer and cross-country for girls.

“The younger generation of parents want their kids to have the same opportunities as others and to be active,” said Efrocia Polushkin, a special-education aide who has worked at Voznesenka School for 29 years and has two sons who played football. “We have to grow with the times. We can’t keep our kids locked in drawers.”

• • •

The home opener was five days away, but only six players suited up for practice. Among the absent were those busy with home chores, butchering chickens or digging potatoes. Zank received a text message from Prokohpy Konev, 16, a junior wide receiver and defensive back: “Mom made me shovel out the chicken coop.”

It was drizzly with temperatures in the 50s. Practice was held at an elementary school 10 miles from Voznesenka. After two hours of drills, players ran around cones on an unmarked field, 25 to 30 seconds per lap, until they bent in exhaustion. Two players who had just returned from fishing, and were not yet in football shape, went into the bushes and threw up.

Nikit Anufriev, 18, a senior center and defensive end, was the biggest player on the field and the best conditioned. Once, he was so gangly that older boys shoved him into lockers. Now he had filled out to 6-feet-2, 190 pounds. While fishing over the summer, he jumped rope to stay fit and did push-ups and situps on the boat. He ran effortlessly, opening a gap on his teammates with each lap.

He had attended a prestigious wrestling camp in the summer of 2016. Something had clicked in his head: Stop training to finish last. “It changed his life,” Zank said.

No one could seem to remember the last person — or any person — from Voznesenka who had gone to college on an athletic scholarship. Anufriev wanted to be that person.

“I’ve got goals,” he said.

Football and wrestling were viewed as reflections of the discipline and resilience needed to maintain Old Believer traditions. And the strength required for physically demanding jobs in fishing, construction and subsistence farming.

“It’s all about who’s the strongest,” said Maxim Kusnetsov, 16, a junior running back and defensive lineman who was the 2016 state wrestling champion in the 98-pound division.

Before television was widely viewed in Voznesenka, some residents drove 25 miles to Homer and rented hotel rooms to watch college games and the N.F.L. These days, traditional embroidered shirts worn by boys occasionally feature logos of the Seahawks, Broncos and Patriots on the collar instead of typical floral designs.

At nearby Razdolna School, ceiling tiles in the science classroom were painted with logos of the Saints, Cardinals, Steelers, Panthers and Falcons. On Mondays during football season, the science teacher, Ryan Miller, an assistant coach at Voznesenka, showed N.F.L. highlights for an hour.

Michael Wojciak, the principal at Voznesenka School who, like Zank, was not an Old Believer but wore a beard, in part, to respect local tradition, said: “There’s a fear by some that ‘We’re losing our culture, our identity.’ But the flip side is, if you don’t offer something, you’ll lose the kids.”

Still, football is of only secondary importance in these Old Believer villages. Sports are scheduled around more than 40 religious celebrations held each year. On Sundays, church begins as early as 2 a.m. and lasts four to six hours. And athletes have to adjust their diets according to certain restrictions.

Meat and dairy are prohibited on Wednesdays and Fridays. And the opening of the 2017 football season coincided in the Julian calendar with a two-week period of dietary restrictions, when fish was also mostly excluded, ahead of the Feast of the Assumption.

Work, too, was viewed by many as more urgent — and far more lucrative — than sports. Nikit Martushev, 17, a senior, had played tackle as a freshman, but he resisted entreaties to rejoin the team. He had been a boat captain since he was 14, and while football players expectantly awaited a game, he planned to go long-lining for cod. Soon, he would be moose hunting.

“I wanted time for myself,” Martushev said. “With football, I had no time to do anything else.”

While many in Voznesenka appreciated the value of teamwork in sports, some feared that football players risked serious injury, which could disrupt their livelihoods. Or that athletes would pursue empty hopes of college or professional careers.

“I don’t think it’s possible here. Who knows?” said Anisia White, a village elder and a bilingual tutor at Voznesenka School. “They could end up without anything.”

But Nikit Anufriev wanted to give it a shot. At times, he was the only player to lift weights at Zank’s house after practice. Sometimes he ran in a weighted vest in the morning before school.

“People say, ‘Don’t go to college; you’re not going to get anywhere, it’s a waste of time,’” Anufriev said. “But I want to try something new. To see the world is a big thing.”

At the wrestling camp, it felt electric to be around athletes who had the same passion he had. Months later, he had reached the 2016 Alaska state wrestling semifinals. A scholarship seemed newly possible. He had begun researching small colleges in the Midwest.

“I want to be in the spotlight,” he said.

• • •

As the football team practiced nearby, girls on the Voznesenka cross-country team ran three miles along a quiet road. One of them, Domna Basargin, 15, a 10th grader, had considered playing football, too.

“Knocking down people sounds really fun,” she said.

In such a conservative community, it perhaps seemed unlikely that girls would play football anytime soon. But, encouraged by their parents, and some teachers, they had begun in the last four or five years to ask a vital question: If boys can have opportunities for sport, why can’t we?

Girls and women in Voznesenka wear long, brightly colored dresses to their ankles, many with sleeves to their wrists. Married women cover their uncut hair with scarves. High-school girls are given traditional chores at home — cleaning, sewing, cooking, babysitting. But more of them are also exploring sports.

“It’s fun to push yourself to the limit,” said Elena Basargin, 16, a junior on the soccer team. Her mother, Efimia, a Russian-language teacher, was the Voznesenka School chess champion in 1996, but had no opportunity to play varsity sports. She encouraged Elena to join a team to stay fit and active.

“There is value to working well with others,” Efimia Basargin said. “There has to be something fun besides reading and writing.”

Nikolaevsk, another Old Believer village on the Kenai Peninsula that is considered less conservative, has become a state basketball power. In 2014, Nianiella Dorvall became the first girl from Nikolaevsk to receive a college basketball scholarship, to a community college in Washington.

Dorvall, now 21, has stopped playing basketball to pursue her pre-med studies at Washington State, but said she encouraged Old Believers to pursue sports. “You can maintain your customs, beliefs and traditions while going out into this Americanized world and doing something with your life that you can bring back to your village,” she said. “Or you can share your customs and beliefs with everyone else.”

Change in Voznesenka is inevitable, said White, the village elder. To preserve core beliefs, adults must help children “understand what is important and essential to hold onto.”

When it comes to sports, each family is left to decide what is considered acceptable. Some girls on the cross-country team run in tights. But Vasilisa Basargin, 15, a sophomore, trains in long dresses and said she was unlikely to compete in meets away from Old Believer communities.

“I don’t want to go outside,” she said. “I’m not comfortable.”

The Voznesenka soccer team satisfied concerns about modesty by outfitting players in shorts that extended just above the knee. A soccer ball could get lost in the hemline of a long dress, Frosia Polushkin, the coach, said with a laugh.

“It’s a new century,” Polushkin said. “We Old Believers want to be up with the times.”

• • •

A rumor began to spread that Voznesenka would cancel its home opener and forfeit the entire season. The Cougars’ first opponent, Monroe Catholic High School, faced an uncertain 11-hour drive from Fairbanks.

But Zank was confident that Voznesenka would scrape together a full team, if just barely. More players were returning from fishing. At practices, the mood felt relaxed, loose. Kusnetsov, the running back and wrestling champion, was obsessed with ‘80s rock music. He arrived one day blasting Bruce Springsteen’s “Born in the U.S.A.” from his car.

“The greatest American singer ever,” Kusnetsov said of Springsteen. “It would be Kenny Loggins, but he doesn’t have enough patriotic songs.”

Regularly, players teased Anthony Kalugin, 15, the team’s starting quarterback, who did not bother with the trifling notion that a pre-practice snack should be light and nutritious. “He’s got a gravy dispenser hooked to his car battery,” Kusnetsov said.

Finally, last Friday afternoon, hours before the opening game, 11 players showed up at practice. Voznesenka had an official team. Zank grabbed an ax from an assistant coach’s truck and drove it into a stump. Then he told a story that, strictly speaking, was more designed for motivation than accuracy.

The ax had once belonged to an Old Believer who used it to fend off a bear attack on his family, Zank told the players. “Tomorrow, you guys be the ax,” he said, his voice growing low. “Be sharp, be solid. Slay that friggin’ bear.”

Early Saturday morning, players drove their cars 45 minutes to Homer High School, arriving at 8 a.m., three hours before kickoff. Two additional players joined them, one from vacation, another from a belated ferry ride, bringing the roster to 13. Now the Cougars had a couple of substitutes.

“I woke up on the right side of the bed,” Anufriev, the center and defensive end, told his teammates with a smile. “You guys should thank me. The key to being in beast mode is to be happy.”

Players gathered in a classroom and watched video of Monroe Catholic’s previous game. Kalugin went into a home economics kitchen and cooked a pot of oatmeal for his teammates. He set out syrup, almonds and peanut butter for toppings. According to Old Believer custom, no outsiders could prepare food or handle plates or utensils.

The players began to dress in black helmets, black jerseys and black pants. Beneath the jerseys, each wore a thin woven belt of a type he had worn since baptism.

For Antonin Murachev, 14, a sophomore running back and defensive back, this first game of the season might also be his last. His father was fishing and his mother needed him to chop wood, clean the garage and work in the garden.

Wojciak, the principal, said he would speak to Murachev’s parents “to see if he can play at least the home games.”

Some players said they were nervous. This did not include Daniel Anufriev, 16, a junior lineman and Nikit’s brother. He sprayed himself with cologne in the locker room. “I want to smell good,” he said.

On a warm-up field, Zank gathered the Cougars and told them that no other team could be so competitive with so few players. “You’re tougher,” Zank said.

And he brought up the ax again.

“Slay that bear!”

At halftime, Voznesenka trailed only 10-0.

David Sanarov, 17, a senior linebacker, seemed to make every tackle. He was quiet and polite, not given to emotion. But he was ubiquitous, and had been named the 2016 defensive player of the year in the Peninsula Conference, in which Voznesenka played.

He often wore a black bandanna bearing the Stars and Stripes and taped a message to his helmet that said, “Hope.” He, too, was interested in college, but said his mother objected, telling him: “People who went off to college got further from the religion. It’s better if you stay here.”

“I’m fine with it,” Sanarov said.

Early in the second half, he returned a kickoff for an apparent touchdown, cutting through a warren of futile lunges. But the return was nullified by a penalty. Voznesenka began to deflate. The final score was 26-0.

“Pretty good for one practice together,” said Sam Buenting, an assistant coach and Zank’s brother.

The outcome was encouraging, but also frustrating. With two or three weeks of practice with a full team, Voznesenka could have probably won the game. But each season seemed to begin the same way: Could have … What if …

“It’ll get better,” a Monroe Catholic assistant coach told Zank before the game. “Stay with it.”

Zank smiled.

“I tell myself that every year,” he said.

JACKSONVILLE, Fla.  — A man of many talents, including leveling quarterbacks and flinging creative insults at opponents, Jacksonville Jaguars defensive tackle Malik Jackson also fashions himself an amateur neologist.

Recognizing that linemen notch so-called coverage sacks when excellent defense downfield forces the quarterback to hold on to the ball longer, Jackson wants to introduce a term that accounts for, in effect, the inverse — when pressure coaxes poor throws that are intercepted.

“We couldn’t do it without those guys, and they couldn’t do it without us,” Jackson said. “We get coverage sacks and they get — what do they get? How about D-line interceptions? That’s what I want it to be known as.”

So it has been decreed.

Whatever the nomenclature, the Jaguars amass a lot of sacks and record a lot of interceptions. They also — just ask them — do a lot of other things exceedingly well on defense. And when they do them, they enjoy reminding their opponents.

“We’re not the old Jags,” Jackson said after a recent practice. “We’re going to smack you in the mouth and see what you want to do about it. Then once we do that, we let you know that we smacked you in the mouth.”

This confluence of personnel and personality has produced the type of snarling, opportunistic defense that Jacksonville, despite fruitful drafts and free-agency binges, has long coveted but never attained.

The Jaguars nearly became the first team since the 1970 N.F.L.-A.F.L. merger to lead the league in takeaways, sacks and scoring defense, finishing a close second in each category. That stinginess, coupled with a clock-consuming offense headlined by the N.F.L.’s best rushing attack, powered Jacksonville (10-6) to its first playoff berth since 2007 and its first division title since 1999. The Jaguars host the Buffalo Bills on Sunday in a matchup of longtime playoff outsiders.

“We’re built to match up with any team,” safety Barry Church said. “From Tom Brady, where they like to do quick stuff and crossing routes, to a guy like Ben Roethlisberger, who likes to develop things and let the play extend, like Russell Wilson as well. We’re going to get tested in the playoffs, but we’re excited for that.”

As Church hinted, the Jaguars were constructed in a specific way: to counter the increasing diversity of pass-oriented offenses. Their unit is loaded at every level — elite cornerbacks, speedy linebackers and ferocious rushers.

The assembly spanned seasons. It was initiated by General Manager David Caldwell and accelerated by the first-year head of football operations Tom Coughlin, who was hired a year ago to restore the franchise he shepherded from expansion to contender back to prominence.

No matter how much young talent Jacksonville had procured, its annual spending splurges tended to promote the same reactions, and results, every year: optimism in the spring and summer but despair in the fall and winter. Investing nearly $184 million in guaranteed money from 2014 to 2016, the most in the N.F.L., according to ESPN, yielded all of 11 victories. Only Cleveland (11) won so few games during that span.

An exceptional draft in 2016, in which the Jaguars with their first three picks landed budding stars — the shutdown cornerback Jalen Ramsey, the linebacker Myles Jack and the pass-rushing dynamo Yannick Ngakoue — helped clarify their needs last off-season. Todd Wash, the defensive coordinator, said they prioritized three areas: another cornerback to play opposite Ramsey; a big defensive end capable of rushing the quarterback and setting the edge against the run; and a versatile safety to upgrade their coverage.

The missing components identified, Jacksonville went and lured them all — on the first day of free agency. Beyond the money, the cluster of young talent incentivized cornerback A. J. Bouye, defensive end Calais Campbell and Church to sign. Together they have supplemented production — Campbell’s 14½ sacks tied for second in the league, while Bouye (six interceptions) and Church have helped anchor the secondary — with accountability and professionalism.

“A lot of times when you get new guys, they don’t want to step on anybody’s toes,” cornerback Aaron Colvin said. “Not these guys. They just told us straight up what their goal was, why they were here, why we brought them here, the expectations that people here have for them. They’ve fit in perfectly.”

Coach Doug Marrone agreed, calling the newcomers essential leaders and conduits in the locker room. But early on, Marrone said, he was skeptical as to how everyone would coalesce.

“Sometimes you look at the names on paper and you think to yourself: Maybe these guys can be pretty good,” he said in an interview. “But you can do all the research in the world and not really know until you get the players in. You’re talking about human nature and personalities, and it’s a difficult situation because those guys got paid a lot of money. You really never know.”

The mileposts have come at regular intervals: a season-opening 10-sack bonanza at Houston; a five-interception windfall against Roethlisberger in Pittsburgh in Week 5; a shutout at Indianapolis; a smothering showing against Wilson and the Seahawks, who a week earlier had stomped N.F.C.-leading Philadelphia.

“Coming out of Pittsburgh, we were like, ‘I think we have a chance to be pretty successful,’ ” Wash said in an interview. “When you play against an elite quarterback and you have success, you think you might have something.”

Wash coaches his group to play “on the edge” and “to the echo of the whistle,” much as he did in Seattle, where he tutored the Seahawks’ defensive line in 2011 and 2012 before following Gus Bradley, Marrone’s predecessor, to Jacksonville. These Jaguars, from their Cover 3 scheme to their brash comportment, evoke a less proven version of the Seahawks’ defense that over the past few seasons has set a standard for excellence.

Both teams depended on a four-man rush instead of blitzing, excelled at forcing turnovers and valued speed and athleticism at linebacker to help neutralize pass-catching running backs and tight ends. They also had angular cornerbacks patrolling the boundaries, and every week Ramsey antagonizes, and erases, the opposition’s best receiver the way Richard Sherman did in his prime.

Jacksonville has yielded 4.82 net passing yards per pass play (passing yards minus sack yardage divided by total pass plays), the fourth fewest since 2002, according to the sports data service Sportradar. The three teams ahead of them: the 2002 Buccaneers (won the Super Bowl), the 2008 Steelers (won the Super Bowl) and the 2009 Jets (lost in the A.F.C. championship game).

“It’s hard to say that we don’t potentially have the tools to be as dominant for the next couple of years as those guys,” said safety Tashaun Gipson, referring to Seattle. “When you play the Seahawks, you think defense. It’s the staple of what a great defense should look like. Hopefully the comparisons will be null and void, and the Jacksonville Jaguars will be the premier defense for years to come.”

Marrone just wants his team, which surrendered 44 points in a Week 16 loss at San Francisco before rebounding last week at Tennessee, to play well this weekend against Buffalo.

From Bill Parcells, Marrone said, he has learned that a team never begins the next season where it left off — it must prove itself over again. Not that he expects this season to end soon.

“I don’t ever want to be defined by this game or this season, and I know this team doesn’t, either,” Marrone said, adding: “I have issues enjoying things. And it’s something I have to work on.”