One of the N.F.L.’s smartest players did the math and decided to retire after just three years in the league.

John Urschel, an offensive lineman for the Baltimore Ravens who received much publicity for his off-season pursuit of a doctorate in math at M.I.T., told the team on Thursday that he was hanging up his cleats at 26.

Urschel’s agent, Jim Ivler, said Urschel was overwhelmed with interview requests but would not be speaking to the news media. On Twitter, Urschel wrote that “there is no big story here” and that the decision to retire was not an easy one to make, but “it was the right one for me.”

He added that he planned to return to school full time in the fall, “to take courses that are only offered in the fall semester” and spend time with his fiancée, who is expecting their first child in December.

Urschel’s decision came two days after the release of a study in which all but one of 111 brains of former N.F.L. players showed signs of chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative brain disease linked to repeated hits to the head.

The Baltimore Sun and ESPN, citing anonymous sources with the Ravens, said his retirement was related to the study.

Urschel, who had spoken about balancing concerns about the safety of the game and his love for it, left before the team’s first full practice of the coming season.

“We respect John and respect his decision,” Coach John Harbaugh said in a statement. “We appreciate his efforts over the past three years and wish him all the best in his future endeavors.”

Urschel became the latest high-profile N.F.L. player to retire after just a few years in the league. A. J. Tarpley, a linebacker on the Buffalo Bills who played at Stanford University, retired last year after sustaining several concussions. The year before, San Francisco 49ers linebacker Chris Borland left the N.F.L. after one season, citing a fear of long-term cognitive damage.

Last week, the Carolina Panthers released Michael Oher, the lineman made famous in “The Blind Side,” the movie that told the story of his growing up with foster parents. Oher, who has been in the N.F.L. concussion protocol since September, was released after failing a physical.

“The Brain is a scary thing,” Oher said on Twitter after his release. “You have to be careful with it.”

Urschel played football at Penn State, where he studied mathematics and graduated in three years with a 4.0 grade point average. The Ravens selected Urschel in the fifth round of the 2014 N.F.L. draft, and he played in 40 games over the past three seasons. He sustained a concussion in 2015 in a head-to-head collision.

Urschel spent the past two off-seasons at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he studied advanced mathematics, including spectral graph theory, matrix algebra and computational finance.

“Right now, I spend most of my time thinking about discrete Schrödinger operators, high-dimensional data compression, algebraic multigrid and Voronoi diagrams,” he said on his M.I.T. web page.

He has also published papers in mathematics journals.

His penchant for numbers led NFL Network to call him the  league’s smartest man. 

His intelligence led many to question his decision to put his body and mind at risk by playing one of the most dangerous positions in football. In 2015, he wrote an essay in The Players’ Tribune, “Why I Still Play Football,” after Borland’s sudden retirement.

In the article, Urschel wrote, “objectively, I shouldn’t” play football.

“I have a bright career ahead of me in mathematics. Beyond that, I have the means to make a good living and provide for my family, without playing football.”

The collision in 2015 knocked him out. Urschel told HBO’s “Real Sports With Bryant Gumbel” that his ability to do high-level math was temporarily affected.

Eugene Monroe, a fellow lineman on the Ravens that season, said he spoke with Urschel after he sustained that concussion. Urschel, he said, told him that he was unnerved that it had affected his ability to solve math problems.

“He was nervous; he was frightened about it,” said Monroe, who retired last year in part because he worried about the long-term effects of repeated hits to the head. “For something he loves, he’s been thinking about it. How could he not.”

Still, Monroe said he was not surprised that Urschel returned to the field three weeks after the concussion, “football ready,’’ as Urschel said on the HBO program, although it took him longer to recover his math skills.

Despite the severity of the concussion, Urschel said that he wanted to continue doing the two things he loved: math and football.

“I recognize that this is somewhat irrational,” Urschel said on the segment. “But I am doing it.”

Not anymore.

The N.C.A.A. punished Rutgers for what it characterized in a ruling Friday as a failure to monitor its football program over a five-year period during which the former head coach and the program flouted N.C.A.A. and university rules related to recruiting and drug-testing.

The sanctions levied Friday, which included two years’ probation and recruiting restrictions, stemmed from a series of scandals under the former coach, Kyle Flood, and were the latest embarrassments for an athletic department known more for losses and red ink than victories in the years since it bet its athletic future on a move to the Big Ten Conference.

Flood, who was fired in 2015, was suspended for three games and fined $50,000 that season after the university found he had improperly contacted a professor in an effort to help a star player remain academically eligible. Friday’s ruling took note of that punishment, but the N.C.A.A. also condemned Flood for overseeing a system in which the university met and courted recruits off-campus and through other nontraditional means, in violation of both N.C.A.A. rules and university policy.

Additionally, the N.C.A.A.’s Committee on Infractions found, and Rutgers agreed, that for four years the university did not follow its own drug-testing policies, which allowed 14 players to compete when they should have been penalized.

“These violations share the common thread of Rutgers and individuals not grasping the importance of adhering to institutional policies and compounding problems by further noncompliance with N.C.A.A. legislation,” the committee wrote in its decision.

The penalty imposed Friday included two years of probation for Rutgers and several restrictions on the team’s recruiting. Flood was issued a one-year show-cause order, requiring a collegiate team that wishes to hire him in the coming year to receive N.C.A.A. permission. A former assistant coach, Darrell Wilson, also was issued a one-year show-cause for off-campus recruiting for a separate incident, in which the committee found he had had unpermitted contact with a recruit.

Flood is now an assistant offensive line coach for the Atlanta Falcons; he could not immediately be reached for comment. Wilson’s attorney declined to comment.

Rutgers did not immediately comment on the N.C.A.A.’s statement, or the penalties.

Flood’s improper communication with a teacher was not the only scandal to hit the football team in 2015, when six football players were dismissed after they were accused of involvement in criminal activities. But the athletic department has faced other crises as well.

In 2013, revelations of the physical and verbal abuse of players led to the ouster of the former men’s basketball coach Mike Rice and the athletic director at the time, Tim Pernetti. It later emerged that Pernetti’s replacement as athletic director, Julie Hermann, had been accused of verbally abusing women’s volleyball players whom she had coached at Tennessee, and that the new basketball coach, Eddie Jordan, a beloved former Rutgers player, had not graduated from Rutgers, contrary to what Rutgers had said when he was hired. Both Hermann and Jordan were later fired.

Many at Rutgers remain skeptical of the quick path the university took from relative athletic obscurity to college sports’ oldest conference, and among its richest, the Big Ten. The conference invited Rutgers to become a member partly to add value to its national cable network and its broadcasting deals. It got those, but also notoriety and a perennially weak team in football, the league’s signature sport.

Though it experienced success last decade, the football team is 4-21 in the Big Ten in three seasons of conference play. The fourth, under the second-year coach Chris Ash, is set to begin Saturday as the Scarlet Knights (1-2) take on Nebraska (1-2) in Lincoln.

PHILADELPHIA — A queasy feeling roiled the civic gut for decades: Sporting success in Philadelphia was mainly just disaster that hadn’t happened yet.

Generations of fans grew up with the grim certainty that things would not end well for the Eagles, Phillies, 76ers and Flyers. Sure, there were tempting victories, even the scattered championship, but mostly the pro teams were only good enough to break your heart.

No team idealized Philadelphia’s view of itself as the Eagles did — the gritty, blue-collar, Rocky-esque underdog, good but not quite good enough.

But with Sunday’s 41-33 victory over New England, the Eagles claimed their first Super Bowl title and first N.F.L. championship since 1960. They are now the overdog, not the underdog. The police greased poles with hydraulic fluid in Center City to try to keep celebrating fans from gaining an unsafe perch.

“It can happen, it can actually happen,” said Linda Harris, 68, a retired customer service agent who wore her Eagles charm bracelet and helmet ring to watch Sunday’s game. “We’re as good as the rest of them.”

Mike Jensen, 46, a painter, told me at the gym on Sunday afternoon: “It will bring closure to your endless nightmare. Finally, we can cash in on the big prize instead of always waiting for something bad to happen.”

But what next? Will this force a reassessment by Philly fans? What will a Super Bowl victory do to their outlook? Will they become more assured, more generous, more impatient? Will this stoke their passion or quell it?

“I think the Philadelphia fans will always be the same passionate (sometimes obnoxious) fans they always were, win or lose,” Anne Clark, the matriarch of a family of ardent Eagles fans, said in an email during the game.

“Perhaps it should” change the fans’ mind-set, Jack Long, 69, a retired Philadelphia firefighter and paramedic, said at the gym. “You’re no longer the underdog. You’re just another team that needs to show up and spend the money to win.”

Long-suffering fans of the Red Sox, the Cubs and every team in Cleveland have faced a similar re-evaluation after championships won in recent years.

My friend Barbara Huebner, a longtime sportswriter in Boston, described herself as “a rabid, live-and-die-for-it Red Sox fan” until the Sox won their first World Series in 86 years in 2004, then followed with two more titles in 2007 and 2013.

Now, Huebner said in an email, with some exceptions, “I pay almost no attention to them anymore.” The attraction, she added, “was all about the suffering, the tragic arc.”

Philadelphia was once the United States’ political and financial capital. But it long ago ceded its primacy to Washington and New York. Sports are the most visible way to show that Philly still measures up. But its fans have endured a wounded passion. Until Sunday, Philly’s pro teams had won only two titles in the past 35 years — the Sixers in 1983 and the Phillies in 2008.

A couple of hours after those Phillies won, I interviewed a police officer in the suburb of Havertown. Let’s not get carried away with victory, Ken Krieg, the officer, told me. “This is Philadelphia. The curse is never really over.”

But the usual gloom was absent this past week.

Tom Brady was 40 and the Patriots’ dynasty seemed to be near its end. And being an underdog at home in two playoff games had left the Eagles and their fans in a familiar, comfortable position. Players and fans wore German shepherd masks and relished the role of the disfavored.

“It’s our turn,” said Kevin Meyers, 32, a mixed-martial arts fighter.

Around town, people painted their hair green, carved mozzarella cheese into the shape of the Eagles logo, and admonished each other not to punch any more police horses.

The team was as loose and confident as its fans.

Lane Johnson, an Eagles tackle, made fun of Brady, and told Bob Ford of The Philadelphia Inquirer that “seeing the Patriots in the Super Bowl is like watching the same episode of ‘Friends’ every night. You get tired of it.”

On “Saturday Night Live,” Tina Fey, a native of the suburb Upper Darby, called Boston “a college town with a fishing pier.”

And then the Eagles went out and won. They actually won. After five decades, they finally joined their rivals in the N.F.C. East — the Cowboys, Giants and Redskins — with a Super Bowl title of their own.

Sunday’s opponent was New England, but Philadelphia’s true nemesis is Dallas. It is the team the Eagles measured themselves against as they ascended toward their first (futile) trip to the Super Bowl, after the 1980 season. It is impossible to overstate how much the Cowboys’ “America’s Team” moniker drives people crazy here. The Cowboys have five Super Bowl trophies. At least now the Eagles can say they have one.

“We got the monkey off our back,” said Rick Pergolini, 64, a retired guidance counselor and high school basketball coach.

Would this change the underdog mind-set in Philadelphia? Pergolini said he wasn’t sure, except that Eagles fans will “want more now. We’re not happy with just one.”

Edward G. Rendell, a former mayor of Philadelphia and governor of Pennsylvania, said on a postgame show that if star quarterback Carson Wentz fully recovers from a knee injury, “We have a shot to be back here every year for the next five or six.”

The Eagles’ victory parade, Rendell predicted, would draw two to three million spectators and become “the largest attendance at a sports parade in the history of the country.”

For once, Seth Joyner, a former Eagles linebacker said, it would be New England, not Philadelphia, “that gets to spend the off-season in the pit of misery.”

AUBURN, Ala. — Years before she was an award-winning journalist covering race and the South, Diane McWhorter was a student at Wellesley College, outside Boston. On Saturday afternoons in the fall, whenever she had the chance, she would watch nationally televised Alabama football games with friends. “I had to explain what a first down was,” she said.

These friends would cheer against the Crimson Tide, McWhorter said, because Alabama was “such an awful state,” a place only a few years removed from Jim Crow that had repeatedly elected the segregationist George Wallace as its governor.

But McWhorter, who later won the Pulitzer Prize for a book about the civil rights movement in her hometown of Birmingham, could not help herself. She rooted for the Tide.

“It was my redneck joy,” she said. “I loved the football team.”

The crosshatching of political and social developments against college football dominance has been a feature of Alabama life for nearly a century. The Crimson Tide’s emergence onto the national scene in the 1920s coincided with the Ku Klux Klan’s resurgence in the state. In the 1960s, football provided Alabamians a welcome point of pride during the tumult of the civil rights era.

Today is no different. This week, the state is bearing down for Saturday’s Iron Bowl here between the Alabama Crimson Tide and the Auburn Tigers, one of the most consequential meetings in the history of that annual rivalry game. The winner will play for the Southeastern Conference title and a spot in the College Football Playoff.

Yet, at the same time, Alabama also has been split by a contentious U.S. Senate campaign that has provoked outcry and judgment from far beyond the state line.

The Republican candidate, Roy S. Moore, who was twice removed from the state Supreme Court, has been accused of seeking relationships with teenage girls as young as 14 when he was in his 30s. Moore has angrily denied the accusations, but in a state where a former legislative leader is serving a prison term for corruption and the former governor resigned earlier this year in connection with a sex scandal, the Senate campaign once again threatens to shape outsiders’ views of Alabama in ways that make its residents cringe.

“We’ve got a black eye, statewide and nationally,” said Trey Johnston, the co-owner of J&M Bookstore, an apparel store not far from Jordan-Hare Stadium, where Saturday’s game will be played. “The governor’s just resigned. A guy taken out of office is running for Senate.”

There will be a time to talk about all of that, Johnston said with a smile. Just not until after next weekend’s SEC championship game.

The current swirl of national scorn and college football prominence is just the latest example of what a song by the rock group Drive-By Truckers memorably called “the duality of the whole Southern Thing.” The song, “The Three Great Alabama Icons,” describes a place that simultaneously celebrates Wallace; the Lynyrd Skynyrd frontman Ronnie Van Zant, who wasn’t from the state but called it “Sweet Home”; and the legendary Alabama coach Bear Bryant.

“We ranked 49th in almost everything,” said Patterson Hood, the Florence native who wrote the song. “Now they’re working hard — Roy Moore — where we can’t even talk about Mississippi anymore.”

“I think people grow up in a place like that and think everyone looks down on us,” he added. “Who do we have to look up to? Oh, we’ve got football.”

Those not so critical of Alabama’s political culture nonetheless describe the same yin and yang, between how most of the country perceives the state and where it ranks when it comes to college football.

“Even though there is still some stereotyping going on by ignorant people that really don’t know people in Alabama or don’t have the chance to sit down and get to know us, I think things have changed for so much the better,” said Phyllis Chapple-Perkins, a rabid Crimson Tide fan best known for calling in to Paul Finebaum’s daily sports-talk show as “Phyllis from Mulga.”

“And I think the football games are so much more interesting and powerful,” she added.

Chapple-Perkins is indisputably right about that last part. While the Tide claim more national championships than any other major program and Auburn has its own illustrious history, only in the past decade have both occupied the sport’s heights at the same time. In the past eight seasons, the winner of the Iron Bowl has won the SEC championship seven times, and the national title five; every year, the game’s victor has qualified for the national postseason.

The winner of Saturday’s game between No. 1 Alabama (11-0) and No. 6 Auburn (9-2) will play No. 7 Georgia (10-1), whom Auburn walloped here earlier this month, in the SEC championship game on Dec. 2.

It would be easy to see the contrast between the state’s disrespected stature in several areas and its impressive one in football as quirkily arbitrary; writing a place off as a “land of contradictions” is the oldest trick in the correspondent’s book. But this paradox is the product of a specific history.

It began with the 1926 Rose Bowl, which was the culmination of decades of failed Southern attempts to compete in the quintessentially Northern elite pastime of football. In the first Rose Bowl to feature a Southern team, Alabama upset Washington, 20-19.

It was the same year, noted Wayne Flynt, an emeritus history professor at Auburn, that candidates backed by the Ku Klux Klan won several statewide elections. By the next Rose Bowl, in which Alabama was to play Stanford, the governor invoked the Confederacy in urging Tide players to “fight like hell as did your sires in bygone days.”

“Alabama had borne the brunt of jokes by H.L. Mencken,” Flynt said, referring to the caustic writer who ridiculed Southerners. “Obviously the South got sick of this, and kicking Yankee butt got to be a habit.”

A few decades later, in 1958, Bryant became the coach at his alma mater, and the quarter-century that followed witnessed not only the reign of Wallace, the Selma-to-Montgomery marches and the end of formal desegregation, but also six Tide national championships.

“With Bryant, for the first time Alabama had a legacy of winning — and winning on hardscrabble Southern-agrarian terms,” McWhorter wrote in a New York Times essay when Bryant retired in 1982.

She added, “For hapless Alabamians, Bryant’s winners were proof of the rewards of hard work and determination.”

John Killian, a conservative pastor in Fayette County, echoed this point.

“We’ve never been the insiders,” he said. “George Wallace used to go up and down the state saying, ‘We’re just as cultured and refined as anyone else in this country.’”

Referring to college football, he added, “It’s an expression of Alabama pride when the state does well.”

This dynamic persists to the present day, said Jared Hunter, an Alabama student from Wetumpka who is only the third black person to serve as president of the University of Alabama Student Government Association.

“It seems like the only thing coming from Alabama is corruption or negativity; that is something I think people do internalize,” Hunter said. “And so it is nice when your football team is as dominant as we are, and you have such a great head coach, and you can look to that as being what our reality is, rather than also facing our politics and our budget and things like that.”

Or, for that matter, facing Roy Moore. Although Moore’s Democratic opponent, Doug Jones, has purchased commercial time during Saturday’s television broadcast, many Alabamians will look at Saturday’s game as a respite from a divisive campaign.

“It gives me something to think about other than this Roy Moore situation, because personally I find it embarrassing,” said David Alsobrook, who hails from Eufaula and is the former director of the presidential libraries for George Bush and Bill Clinton.

This is true, added the historian Leah Atkins, across all demographics. Atkins, who has lived in Alabama nearly all her life and who married an Auburn football player, noted that when she led the Alabama Historical Association, she never scheduled meetings on fall Saturdays.

Football, she said, “serves as a guideline for all social and political and educational things across the state.”

Another of the state’s intellectual treasures who was fanatical about football was Harper Lee. Her novel “To Kill a Mockingbird” introduced millions of Americans to what might be called the duality of the whole Alabama Thing.

Lee was from Monroeville, attended Alabama and, according to Flynt, a close friend, remained devoted to its football team throughout her life. “The only person Harper Lee idolized was Bear Bryant,” he said.

Flynt remembered visiting Lee in late 2013, a week after the dramatic “Kick-Six,” in which Auburn returned a short field goal to beat Alabama in the Iron Bowl.

Flynt said that in spite of that devastating defeat, “She was wearing a ‘Roll Tide’ sweatshirt.”