Ara Parseghian, a Presbyterian of Armenian descent who might have seemed an unlikely savior of Notre Dame football but became just that, coaching the Fighting Irish out of the wilderness and back to greatness in the 1960s and ’70s, died early Wednesday morning at his home in Granger, Ind. He was 94.

The Rev. John Jenkins, president of the University of Notre Dame, announced the death in a statement.

Parseghian, whose home was not far from the university’s campus in South Bend, Ind., had recently been undergoing treatment at a care facility for a hip infection.

Parseghian ranks with Knute Rockne and Frank Leahy in the pantheon of Notre Dame football coaches. In his 11 seasons (1964 through 1974), his teams won 95 games, lost 17 and tied four, for a .836 winning percentage. His 1966 and 1973 teams were voted national champions.

When Parseghian arrived at Notre Dame, the university’s football program had been in decline for years. The collapse started in 1956, when Notre Dame won only two games and lost eight. Though there were some victories, Notre Dame never won more than five games in a season from 1959 to 1963. Twice it won only two games.

Notre Dame fans and Notre Dame haters — there have always been armies of each — offered theories: The university’s leaders were de-emphasizing football as they sought to raise the school’s academic reputation; good players didn’t want to go to an all-male school; tradition alone could not attract enough talented athletes; the coaching was bad; all of the above.

Meanwhile, Parseghian was gaining a reputation. After five highly successful seasons at his alma mater, Miami of Ohio, where he was a protégé of Woody Hayes, he moved to Northwestern for the 1956 season. He barely broke even in his eight years there, but he was credited with doing a lot at an academically rigorous institution with no trace of a football factory image.

By the early 1960s, Notre Dame’s administrators were all too familiar with Parseghian; his Northwestern teams had beaten Notre Dame four years in a row.

At the time, Notre Dame had an interim coach, Hugh Devore, and Parseghian’s relationship with the Northwestern athletic director, Stu Holcomb, had become strained. Parseghian contacted the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, Notre Dame’s vice president and its chairman of athletics, and soon it was announced that he was headed to Notre Dame.

In the spring of 1964, student servers in Notre Dame’s main dining hall noticed that football players were forsaking gravy and ice cream. The new coach had told them that they were going to be leaner and faster.

Above all, Parseghian wanted to change the players’ emotions. “The biggest problem was to re-instill the confidence,” he recalled in a television interview years later. This he did, with an enthusiastic, hands-on approach in practices that were always well organized.

“He told us we were good; he’d give each of us a chance to show what we could do in practice,” Jack Snow, who was switched from running back to wide receiver, told The New York Times in 1964. “And he’d be in there with us, doing exercises, snapping the ball from center, showing us how to block and run. He made us believe in ourselves.”

Parseghian had a keen eye for talent that had been misused or overlooked. Besides shifting the sure-handed Snow to receiver in 1964, he converted three big but rather slow running backs (“the elephant backfield,” he later called them) into linemen, where they thrived. Most important, Parseghian decided his starting quarterback would be the senior John Huarte, who had spent far more time on the bench than on the field his sophomore and junior years.

Snow was Huarte’s favorite receiver as the Fighting Irish won nine straight games in 1964, with many of the same players from the squad that had lost seven games the year before. Southern California spoiled a perfect season with a 20-17 victory in Los Angeles, but Huarte, who had not even won a varsity letter until 1964, was awarded the Heisman Trophy. Parseghian was acclaimed coach of the year.

In his 11 seasons at Notre Dame, Parseghian demanded the best from his players without cursing or breaking clipboards on the sideline. “All he had to do was look at you,” Ross Browner, an all-American defensive lineman in the 1970s, recalled years later.

But for all his success, Parseghian was saddled for a time with the reputation of a coach who “couldn’t win the big ones.” That image was reinforced on Nov. 19, 1966, when unbeaten Notre Dame met unbeaten Michigan State at East Lansing in the most eagerly awaited college game in 20 years.

Notre Dame fell behind, 10-0, then rallied to tie the score. But late in the game and in its own end of the field, Notre Dame played conservatively rather than risk a turnover, and the game ended in a 10-10 tie. Although Notre Dame was voted the national champion by the wire services, there were many who thought the game had taken some luster from the team’s image.

After the 1969 season, Notre Dame accepted an invitation to meet top-ranked Texas in the Cotton Bowl, ending four decades in which the Irish did not take part in postseason play. Texas won, 21-17, on New Year’s Day 1970.

A year later, after another season-spoiling loss to Southern California, Notre Dame returned to the Cotton Bowl and upset Texas, 24-11, to snap the Longhorns’ winning streak at 30 games. Notre Dame’s next bowl appearance was a crushing 40-6 loss to Nebraska in the Orange Bowl after the 1972 season.

Parseghian’s year of total redemption was 1973. The team won all 10 regular-season games, then defeated Alabama in the Sugar Bowl, 24-23. The clincher was a daring pass from the Irish end zone for a first down that enabled Notre Dame to run out the clock and silenced those who said the coach lacked nerve when it really counted.

The 1974 season was Parseghian’s last, and in some ways his toughest, even though his team finished 10-2. Several players had been suspended for disciplinary reasons before the season. And in the regular-season finale, Notre Dame suffered a crushing 55-24 loss to Southern California after leading by 24-0.

Parseghian announced in December 1974 that he was retiring, saying that a quarter-century in coaching had left him “physically exhausted and emotionally drained.” Another New Year’s victory over Alabama, this time in the Orange Bowl, enabled him to go out a winner.

He last appeared as a coach on July 24, 1976, was in the College All-Star Game against the defending Super Bowl champions, the Pittsburgh Steelers. The contest, at Soldier Field in Chicago, made history: It was the first game halted by a rainstorm in National Football League history. Stopped in the third quarter, the game never resumed. It turned out to be the final All-Star Game; the match was discontinued after 42 years.

Ara Raoul Parseghian was born in Akron, Ohio, on May 21, 1923, to Michael Parseghian, who had fled Turkey amid the Armenian genocide, and Amelia Bonneau. His mother had forbidden him to try out for his high school team, and when he did, and made the team, he kept it a secret from her — until the day he came home with an injury.

After high school, Parseghian joined the Navy and played football at the Great Lakes Naval Training Center under Paul Brown, who later gained fame as coach of the Cleveland Browns. When he left the Navy, Parseghian enrolled at Miami University in Ohio and earned all-American mention as a halfback. (He was 5 feet 10 inches, and for decades he maintained his playing weight of 185 pounds.)

Parseghian joined the Browns after college, but a hip injury ended his professional playing career. He returned to Miami as the freshman coach and became the head coach when Hayes left for Ohio State.

After leaving Notre Dame, Parseghian was a color commentator for ABC Sports from 1975 to 1981 and for CBS Sports in 1988.

Surviving are his wife, Kathleen, whom he married in 1948; a daughter, Kristan, and a son, Michael. Another daughter, Karan, died in 2012. His brother, Gerard, died in 2010, and his sister, Isabelle Atwood, died in 2008.

In 1994, Parseghian founded the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation, dedicated to financing research on Niemann-Pick Type C disease, a genetic pediatric nerve disorder that killed three of his grandchildren.

When the Presbyterian Parseghian was first offered the job at Notre Dame, he wavered, but he said in 2013 that he had embraced the “underlying spirituality to whatever happened at Notre Dame.”

“That was one of the main reasons I enjoyed being there so much,” he added.

Parseghian was only 51 when he left Notre Dame. Initially, there were rumors that he was weighing offers to coach in the N.F.L., but they remained rumors. As for the possibility that he might one day coach college football again, he would say, “After Notre Dame, what is there?”

Frank Broyles, a revered football coach and athletic director who helped lift the University of Arkansas into the top ranks of college sports, most memorably by leading the Razorbacks to an undefeated season in 1964 and their only national championship, died on Monday in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 92.

A statement by his family said the cause was complications of Alzheimer’s disease.

The Razorbacks had been a doormat for powerful Texas teams in the Southwest Conference when Broyles left the head coaching job at the University of Missouri to take over the Arkansas football program in Fayetteville in 1958.

By the time he resigned in 1976, at 52, to devote all his time to his other role, as athletic director, his teams had compiled a 144-58-5 record and, in addition to the national title, won six Southwest Conference titles and 10 bowl games.

He went on to raise tens of millions of dollars for stadiums and other sports facilities, helped to build national champions in basketball and track and field, and found a national audience as a college football commentator for ABC Sports.

“He’ll be known for turning a college sports lemonade stand into a Fortune 500-type operation,” The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette wrote in 1999. “Piece by piece, Broyles helped give the nation something else to associate with Arkansas besides Li’l Abner and the desegregation crisis.”

The seeds of his football success were planted in the last game of an otherwise disappointing 5-5 season in 1963, when Arkansas defeated Texas Tech, 27-20, at home the day after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated. It was the first of 22 straight victories.

The next season, the Razorbacks went undefeated, along the way knocking off the No. 1 team, Texas, and ending the campaign with five straight shutouts. After they defeated Nebraska, 10-7, in the 1965 Cotton Bowl in Dallas to finish with an 11-0 record, sportswriters gave Arkansas its first national football crown.

The team went undefeated in the 1965 regular season as well and was ranked No. 1 when its hopes for a second national title were dashed by L.S.U. on the same Cotton Bowl field.

Arkansans loved Broyles, even if he was a native of Georgia.

“In Arkansas nowadays,” Fred Russell wrote in The Saturday Evening Post in October 1960, “Broyles seems to be all things to all kinds of people. To the rooters in the stands he is a resourceful and dynamic leader whose shirttail is always flying by the third quarter as he urges his boys on from the sidelines.

“To the area’s high school coaches,” Russell went on, “he’s an inventive technician whose ideas merit close study; more than 200 of them attended a coaching clinic he conducted last spring. To his players he is an understanding friend, sociable and considerate. To mothers of budding athletes he’s the type of coach to whom a boy can safely be entrusted. To ministers he’s a man they can call on Sunday nights for eloquent and sincere testimonials.”

One of his strengths was recruiting, and particularly recruiting married athletes. In his first summer at Arkansas, Broyles recruited the newlywed Lance Alworth, a schoolboy All-American from Brookhaven, Miss., after the University of Mississippi had rejected him because of a rule against married players. Alworth went on to a Hall of Fame career as a wide receiver in the National Football League, almost entirely with the San Diego Chargers.

Broyles had 20 married men on his 1960 squad alone. (He himself had married his high school sweetheart while both were in college, in 1945.)

His acumen in choosing assistant coaches was renowned. At least 30 became head coaches of college or professional teams. Among them, Jimmy Johnson, Barry Switzer and Johnny Majors went on to win national college championships, and Johnson, Switzer and Joe Gibbs won Super Bowls.

In 1996, the National College Football Awards Association created the Frank Broyles Award, given to outstanding assistant coaches.

When he resigned, Broyles picked Lou Holtz to succeed him. Holtz, a former head coach at North Carolina State, had coached the Jets for a season before leaving the N.F.L. to take the Arkansas job. He became one of college football’s most successful coaches, notably at Notre Dame.

The Atlanta Falcons, meanwhile, reportedly offered Broyles $200,000 a year plus a percentage of the team to be their head coach, but he turned them down and remained at Arkansas as athletic director. He was quoted as telling a friend, “There is no way I am worth what is being offered.”

Broyles was a member of a National Collegiate Athletic Association special events committee that in the late 1970s recommended a postseason series of playoffs. The idea was rejected by most colleges and college bowl sponsors, who saw it as a threat to their prestige and profits.

Broyles said he saw playoffs as a way “to make money.” He envisioned holding them between the year-end college bowl games and the Super Bowl.

“Maybe our feeling for a playoff is ahead of its time, like solar energy is right now,” he told The New York Times in 1979. But a playoff was inevitable, he said, because “98 percent of the fans want it.”

The N.C.A.A. put a four-team playoff system into effect in 2014.

John Franklin Broyles was born on Dec. 26, 1924, in Decatur, Ga., to O. T. Broyles and the former Mary Louise Solms. His father ran a grocery store, the success of which spared the family the ravages of the Depression. Frank met his future wife, Barbara Day, when they were both high school sophomores.

Frank, lanky and red-haired, was a standout quarterback for Georgia Tech, leading the team to four bowl games while winning 10 varsity letters in football, basketball and baseball. He was voted Southeast Conference player of the year in 1944.

After a year in the Navy Seabees at the end of World War II, he earned a bachelor’s degree in industrial management in 1947. He signed to play pro football with the Chicago Bears, then withdrew when he discovered that the team was pursuing another rookie quarterback.

He held assistant coaching jobs at Baylor, Florida and Georgia Tech and led Missouri to a 5-4-1 record as head coach in 1957 before Arkansas hired him.

As full-time athletic director at Arkansas (he had held the post part time in his last years as a coach), Broyles set up fund-raising machinery that took in close to $200 million over the years, partly to build a baseball stadium and a track-and-field complex now called the Broyles Athletic Center. In 1992, he led Arkansas out of the disintegrating Southwest Conference into the prosperous Southeastern Conference.

He also helped build national champions in track and field and cross-country. After Broyles hired Nolan Richardson, the first black basketball coach in the Southwest Conference, Richardson led the Razorbacks to their first basketball national championship in 1994, defeating Duke in the final.

But for Broyles the 1990s were mostly a series of administrative problems. A secretary embezzled more than $500,000 in athletic department funds. Trainers illegally dispensed prescription drugs. P. K. Holmes, a United States attorney, accused Broyles of mismanagement. For a time The Democrat-Gazette soured on him, writing in a 1994 editorial, “Frank Broyles didn’t have the good sense to resign at his peak, so no one can now expect him to resign in disgrace.”

Broyles’s first wife, Barbara, died in 2004. In 2005 he married Guendaline Whitehead. She survives him, as do four sons, Jack, Hank, Dan and Tommy; twin daughters, Betsy Arnold and Linda Mayes, from his first marriage; seven stepchildren, Kathleen Paulson, Joan Threet, Ruth Trainor and Bruun, Eric, Ted and Philip Whitehead; a sister, Louise Broyles Ferguson; 17 grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren, and 13 step-grandchildren. He lived in Fayetteville.

Broyles was elected to the College Football Hall of Fame in 1983. After leaving coaching, he was ABC’s lead analyst on college games for nine years.

He also appeared in front of a movie camera. In 1982, with the mini-series “The Blue and the Gray” being filmed in and around Fayetteville, the director, Andrew McLaglen, asked him and others on the Arkansas campus to serve as extras. Broyles had a two-sentence part in the final episode as the doctor attending President Abraham Lincoln after he was shot.

“The wound is mortal,” he said. “All we can do is wait.”

For more than a decade, the N.F.L. has offered a roughly nine-figure quid pro quo with American cities: Invest hundreds of millions of dollars of public money in a stadium, and a Super Bowl will come.

Seven N.F.L. stadiums have been built in the last 12 years. By 2020, all will have hosted the country’s biggest sporting spectacle. When new stadiums open near Los Angeles and in Las Vegas during the next decade, they will get a Super Bowl, too.

New stadiums, supported by as many public dollars as possible, have long been one of the league’s priorities. To get funds for them, the N.F.L. dangles the prospect of playing host to a Super Bowl and its promised riches.

Depending on what, exactly, constitutes a public dollar, taxpayers contribute an average of about $250 million to build N.F.L. stadiums, according to the advisory firm Conventions, Sports & Leisure International. For U.S. Bank Stadium in Minneapolis — which opened in 2016 and will host the Super Bowl on Sunday — the state of Minnesota spent $348 million and the city kicked in an additional $150 million, a bit less than 50 percent of the stadium’s total cost.

An economic impact report commissioned by the Minneapolis Super Bowl Host Committee stated that much of the taxpayer investment in the stadium would be recouped by the region during the event. It estimated that the Super Bowl would contribute $343 million to the region, including $29 million in tax revenue.

“We are taking a conservative approach with the numbers,” Michael Langley, the chief executive of the Minneapolis-St. Paul economic development agency, said. “But even if you are only talking about $350 million to $400 million, that’s a huge benefit to the community, just in terms of dollars spent in February.”

Sports economists don’t view the situation quite the same way. They said the economic impact study for the Minneapolis Super Bowl began by saying all the right things about how past estimates had “been criticized as extremely overinflated, inaccurate, even purposely misrepresented.” In the end, though, it did the same thing.

“They always talk really good about that stuff, and then they go off the rails,” said Victor A. Matheson, a sports economist at the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Mass.

Matheson has written extensively about the effect of Super Bowls. He has found that they usually generate anywhere from $30 million to $130 million in economic activity for the host city.

“Not nothing, and not what you would sneeze at,” he said, “but somewhere between a quarter and a tenth of what is being claimed.”

Take hotel rooms, for example. To host the Super Bowl, Minneapolis had to show that there were at least 24,000 of them within 60 minutes of the stadium, capable of accommodating visitors during the entire 10-day Super Bowl celebration. Accordingly, the economic impact report estimates the Super Bowl will generate 230,000 nights of hotel stays.

But if the Super Bowl were not in town, many of those hotel rooms would have been filled anyway, by business travelers, conventiongoers and — yes, even in Minnesota in the dead of winter — tourists. It is the net occupancy gain, not gross occupancy, that matters, said Frank Stephenson, an economist at Berry College in Mount Berry, Ga.

Stephenson has studied hotel occupancy extensively, using a source of daily data that includes things like the number of rooms rented and the daily rate. This allows him to estimate how many hotel rooms in a region would usually be booked and for what price, and compare that with when the Super Bowl comes to town.

In a forthcoming paper, Stephenson examines the 2012 Indianapolis Super Bowl, which generated 224,000 hotel stays, according to its economic impact report. Indianapolis serves as an apt comparison to Minneapolis since it is a cold-weather city in the Midwest. Actually, in the week leading up to the Super Bowl and the three days afterward, Indianapolis hotels rented an additional 49,000 rooms compared with what would be expected, less than a quarter of the estimate.

The rooms cost more than they otherwise would, generating about $28 million in additional revenue. But Stephenson cautioned against assuming that the money had stayed in Indianapolis; in fact, there was heavy leakage.

“They don’t give it to the housekeeper or bellboy or front-desk person,” he said. “A lot of it just flows to whoever owns the hotel.”

R. T. Rybak was the mayor of Minneapolis for 12 years, including when the City Council narrowly approved contributing $150 million to build U.S. Bank Stadium. “I hate sports economics, but I love my city,” he said, “and we ended up crafting a deal that ended up being a financial bonanza for Minneapolis.”

He explained that in addition to helping build U.S. Bank Stadium, the deal also fixed up the Target Center arena and provided funds to operate the convention center. It also spurred Wells Fargo to build two office towers near the stadium and has led to immense development in the Downtown East neighborhood, though the construction mirrors a trend seen across the country and cannot be credited simply to construction of the new stadium.

“I would not have done a deal just for the football stadium,” Rybak said, adding, “You don’t build a stadium for the Super Bowl.”

Good thing he didn’t. When cities bid to host the Super Bowl, they agree to an extensive list of specifications, which include providing goods and services worth millions of dollars to the N.F.L., all at no cost to the league. The Star Tribune of Minneapolis obtained a copy of the 153-page bid book the N.F.L. sent to prospective hosts, and the bid committee told The Star Tribune it had agreed to a majority of the conditions laid out, thought it did not specify what it had rejected.

The bid book shows the host city must provide the N.F.L. with 35,000 parking spaces, thousands of hotel rooms, hundreds of buses and limousines, billboards, security, food and an exemption on paying all sales taxes, among hundreds of other specifications.

The phrase “at no cost to the N.F.L.” appears in the book 65 times.

All of these costs, at least in theory, are borne by the host committee. Minneapolis raised $30 million in pledges from the private sector before even bidding on the Super Bowl. According to Langley, of the regional economic development agency, the committee has now raised more than $50 million to put on the game. Enough is budgeted to pay for police overtime, emergency snow removal or any other cost overruns, he said.

“This is a really professional group,” Langley said.

If so, it is the rare Super Bowl host committee that has budgeted for extras. The city of Santa Clara, Calif., had its costs to host the 2016 Super Bowl reimbursed, but the game cost nearby San Francisco almost $5 million, mostly in police and transit services. Mayor Jerry Weiers of Glendale, Ariz., told ESPN that the city lost money hosting the game in both 2015 and 2008. New Jersey gave the N.F.L. an $8 million tax break, and state-owned New Jersey Transit lost $5.6 million when the game was played there in 2014.

“All of the economic stuff, if you’re lucky, is going to wash,” Matheson said. He noted there was one big noneconomic justification for hosting the Super Bowl: happiness. “We actually do get measurable impact from people’s satisfaction right after a city has hosted the Olympics, Super Bowl or World Cup,” he said.

Perhaps, but is that the windfall Minnesota imagined when it spent $498 million on U.S. Bank Stadium?

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Scott Zolak was joking around with a video crew at Gillette Stadium one morning last week when Bill Belichick walked in.

Immediately, they snapped to their posts, and work began on the weekly video program for the Patriots’ website. In the show, Belichick, the team’s frequently dour coach, cheerfully takes questions from Zolak, and the two break down recent plays using a device they call the Belistrator.

The program can be fascinating, mostly for the insight into the mind of a football genius like Belichick, but also because he has chosen to share them with Zolak, a perpetually gregarious, willfully goofy former backup quarterback who started only seven games in seven seasons with the Patriots.

On this day, Belichick and Zolak examined plays from the Patriots’ A.F.C. championship game victory over the Jacksonville Jaguars, a win that sent the Patriots to their eighth Super Bowl under Belichick.

On the surface, Belichick’s weekly date with Zolak is an odd pairing. The understated and sometimes gruff Belichick is widely considered the smartest person ever to lay eyes on a strip of game film. Zolak is best known for his rollicking sense of humor, his loyalty to his old team and his passionate radio calls.

Those calls can border on stream-of-consciousness poetry, like the time Zolak famously blurted out, after a game-winning touchdown pass by Tom Brady, “Unicorns! Show ponies! Where’s the beef?” During this year’s A.F.C. championship game, his analysis of one play was simply, “In your face.” When Brady threw the winning touchdown pass to Danny Amendola in that game, Zolak’s contribution was simply to exhale and sigh, “I love Tom Brady.”

In an organization that urges employees to say nothing, Zolak is liable to say anything, and Patriots fans love it.

Zolak’s defense-of-the-realm intensity and bawdy, high-energy personality make him extremely popular in New England, even though he threw only 248 passes in his eight-season N.F.L. career. But when the Patriots play the Philadelphia Eagles in the Super Bowl on Sunday, many in this region will mute their televisions and instead listen to Zo, as Zolak is known locally, and his partner, Bob Socci, give their interpretation of the game on 98.5 The Sports Hub.

“He’s one of us,” said Paul Kenney, a 57-year-old landscaper from Dedham, Mass.

And like the fans, Zolak fervently wants the Patriots to win. At halftime of the A.F.C. championship game, he got into an argument at the press box clam-chowder urn with Tony Boselli, a former N.F.L. offensive lineman and Zolak’s friendly rival on the Jaguars’ radio broadcasts. Boselli had the temerity to claim the referees favored the Pats. Worse, according to Zolak, Boselli had brushed off a dangerous illegal hit on tight end Rob Gronkowski, a Zolak favorite. On the postgame show, Zolak needled Boselli, wishing him a happy trip back to Jacksonville.

Roughly the same size as the 6-foot-6, 28-year-old Gronkowski, Zo was Gronk long before Gronkowski ever guzzled from a beer bong. Belichick was asked during a break in the taping of his show what Zolak, now 50, was like at that age.

Belichick paused, smiled and said diplomatically, “We’ve all matured.”

But while Zolak may sound like an over-the-top homer to a Patriots hater, his commentary is mostly fair and often instructive. That might explain why Belichick respects and trusts him enough to collaborate.

The two men met in 1996, when Belichick joined the Patriots’ staff as the assistant head coach to Bill Parcells, nominally responsible for the defensive backs. In that pre-dynastic iteration of the Patriots, Zolak was Drew Bledsoe’s rowdy backup and the extra hand who ran the scout team for Belichick’s defensive backs, impersonating the opposing quarterback in practices.

“I worked closer with him at that time than I did with Drew,” Belichick said during a break in the taping of the show. “He was great at it. He knew the game, he’s smart and he always had a great sense of humor. Everyone got along with him, plus he could throw the hell out of the ball.”

From the other side, Zolak witnessed Belichick’s mind-boggling attention to detail.

“If we were playing the Dolphins, I had to wear No. 13 just like Dan Marino,” Zolak said. “I had to have the sleeves cut off like Dan and wear the same face mask. Bill told me where Marino put his hands at his belt. He wanted the exact same mannerisms.”

Before a game against the Broncos that year, Belichick admonished Zolak for failing to accurately capture John Elway’s cadence at the line of scrimmage. “No, no, it’s ‘set HUT,’” Belichick instructed. To the coach, even something as microscopic as emphasizing the proper syllable in a scout-team drill was worth doing correctly.

Belichick is a teacher at heart, and his sessions with Zolak on the Belistrator are a chance to educate the public about the finer aspects of a complex game. The idea was originally Belichick’s, and he takes time each week to find a handful of plays that are illustrative — yet don’t reveal state secrets or expose a player to criticism.

Zolak started doing the Belichick Breakdowns nine years ago, at first filling in when Belichick needed a new host for the video program. Zolak admits that, as a player, he sometimes had to fight the temptation to doze off during film sessions.

And despite his decidedly un-Belichickian radio personality — Zolak likes to sing ’80s pop tunes at full volume and yell “‘Sup?” to his devoted listeners — he is far more savvy than his partying jock personae suggests. That makes him the perfect foil for Belichick, at least according to Matt Smith, the senior executive producer of their show.

“After that first session with Scott, Bill took me aside and said, ‘This is going to work out really well,’” Smith recalled. “He said, ‘I’m just telling you, it’s going to be really good.’”

Like Belichick’s father, Steve, who coached at the United States Naval Academy, Zolak’s father, Paul, was a coach at Ringgold High School near Pittsburgh, where he once coached a teenage Joe Montana. (Scott Zolak idolized Montana, but now argues that Brady is the best quarterback ever and adds, “It’s not even close.”)

But even with that deep football background, his own playing career and his later one as a broadcaster, Zolak said he still learned new things from Belichick.

In 2015, a few days after the Patriots beat the Seahawks in Super Bowl XLIX, the team was preparing to board buses for its championship parade in Boston when Belichick asked Zolak to join him for an off-air film session.

Belichick had heard that during the game, which the Patriots won on Malcolm Butler’s goal-line interception, Zolak had lambasted the Seattle coaching staff on the air. Zolak had labeled the decision to throw the ball instead of handing it to the bruising running back Marshawn Lynch the worst play call in Super Bowl history.

Belichick explained to Zolak why it was not. He showed Zolak a play earlier in the game where the Patriots had used the same defensive package, and stuffed Lynch for a loss. When the Seahawks saw that personnel grouping on the field at the end of the game, passing the ball made sense.

“He wanted me to know as a broadcaster why it wasn’t the worst call in the history of the Super Bowl,” Zolak said. “He wanted me to learn.”

Educating Zolak also means informing the public. Zolak will be more knowledgeable not only for game broadcasts, but also on his daily sports radio show, “Zolak and Bertrand,” an amusing four-hour symposium with his co-host Marc Bertrand and the producer Jim Louth. On the show, they discuss everything from sports to pop music to shark research (Zolak’s least favorite subject), and Zolak shines as the archetype of the guy people want to chug beer(s) with.

“Before one of the Super Bowls in Arizona, we were in a sushi restaurant,” Louth recalled one day last week. “Half the Patriots’ coaching staff was in there, and so was Manny Ramirez. This was when the Red Sox were really good. But the fans who came in were chanting, ‘Zo, Zo, Zo.’ I was looking around thinking, What is going on here?”

Decades ago, when Parcells coached the Patriots, he quipped that the outsize Zolak needed to understand the difference between “being a quarterback and being the Zo.”

But if being “the Zo” hindered him as a player, it has only enhanced his post-playing career.

Faithful listeners adore Zolak’s bombast, his Everyman outlook and his playing-day yarns of locker room fights and beery weekends. But when he discusses the current Patriots, there is a collective lean-in toward the radio, because fans know Zolak has access to Belichick.

But talking about the Patriots for four hours a day requires Zolak to strike a critical balance, and he is keenly aware how closely Belichick scrutinizes the flow of information out of Gillette Stadium.

“I have to be careful,” Zolak said. “I’m on the plane, I’m in the back rooms. I see stuff. I talk to people. But I know the line and I don’t cross it. I think Bill respects I have a job to do. And we address controversies, too. We know what drives people to listen.”

Zolak also knows that at least some of his popularity is a result of the Patriots’ unprecedented success. Without the Patriots being so good and driving up interest, the legend of Zo might not be so big.

“Yeah, big,” Zolak said smiling. “Big is a good word.”

Television viewers first noticed the aberration on Sept. 10, during the first week of the N.F.L. season, when it happened several times before a live audience of millions of people. Then, the following week, there it was again — and then the week after that, too.

By now it is a full-blown TV marvel, appointment viewing for the N.F.L.’s legion of fans: an announcer who can predict what play is going to happen on the field before the ball is snapped. He’s that good.

The announcer is Tony Romo, and he was making his broadcasting debut on CBS in that Sept. 10 game. But he was no stranger to fans. Before this gig, he was the star quarterback for the Dallas Cowboys the past 14 seasons.

Lots of former players have moved into the broadcast booth after their playing careers, but none have upended convention and delighted fans as much as Romo has through the first few weeks of this season. More often, the ex-players resort to hackneyed sports jargon and observations that even casual fans consider obvious.

“It’s pretty remarkable, really, that he’s come in and really added a new dimension with some of his abilities to predict plays,” said Cris Collinsworth, an analyst for NBC.

In his first game, in Nashville, Romo gave N.F.L. viewers something they craved but were previously deprived of. “I got five dollars this is a run to the left,” he said, and anyone taking the bet would have lost. In Week 2 Romo told viewers to watch out for a fade pass by the Saints. Seconds later, Saints quarterback Drew Brees threw a fade for a touchdown.

Last weekend, Romo was at it again. “This right here is a run-pass option,” he said late in the second quarter of a game between the Green Bay Packers and Cincinnati Bengals. “Hand the ball off with this box. I think this is a handoff right now.”

The Bengals, indeed, handed off. Romo’s broadcasting partner, Jim Nantz, asked why he thought the Bengals would run.

“You have five offensive linemen, and if there is five guys for you to block, let’s run the ball,” he said. “If there’s six guys, let’s throw the ball. I saw five and I played the percentages.”

D’Angelo Taylor, 28, a Redskins fan who lives in Indiana, said, “I’ve never heard football talked about this way.”

Romo had a long, prosperous career with the Cowboys, leading them to the playoffs four times and setting several team records. His playing career ended curiously. While he was out with an injury last season, his rookie substitute, Dak Prescott, excelled. Prescott secured the permanent starting job by the time Romo returned. Rather than serve as a backup, Romo announced in April that he was ending his playing career to go into broadcasting.

Live television is unmerciful, and most former athletes need years of practice before they are comfortable. Romo’s transition was not expected to go well — at least not at first.

“Tony coming out of the box is not going to be great,” Sean McManus, the CBS chairman who hired Romo, told The Washington Post before Romo’s debut.

McManus, however, clearly had a clue that Romo could be very good despite having no broadcasting experience. Instead of placing Romo on one of CBS’s secondary teams — as Fox did with Troy Aikman, who spent a year learning before being promoted to lead analyst — McManus put Romo on the lead team, displacing the longtime analyst Phil Simms.

“We made the decision to hire him and then made the decision to make him the lead analyst, which was a bit of a risk,” McManus said. “But it was calculated.”

Beyond the generous paycheck, sportscasting is usually a thankless job. Twitter, the digital sports bar for millions of fans watching games, is awash in unflattering critiques of whichever poor announcer just misspoke. Even top announcers like Joe Buck, Al Michaels, Aikman and Collinsworth elicit contempt week to week. Romo, at least so far, is the rare sportscaster who draws near universal raves.

Avid football fans have embraced him because he is giving them what they have long desired: insightful analysis from someone who has firsthand knowledge of what happens on the field.

“Some games, with other broadcasters, even after the play, it seems like they have no clue what happened,” said Billy Howell, 32, a Jets fan from North Carolina.

N.F.L. games command audiences in the tens of millions, so the broadcasts generally cater to casual fans, rather than those who want minutiae.

“We gear our broadcast toward Grandma,” said Collinsworth, whose “Sunday Night Football” games typically draw football’s largest audience. “If Grandma is on the couch watching, we don’t want her to leave. We want to be as inclusive as possible.”

Romo achieves inclusivity through infectious enthusiasm, and he rarely uses clichés. His analysis goes much deeper than most broadcasters’. In the Green Bay-Cincinnati game, he talked about chip blocks, rat players, RPOs and A-gaps. He might have lost some Grandmas and Grandpas.

He sometimes forgets to explain these concepts — it took until his eighth or ninth usage of “chip” to explain that it entails a tight end or running back helping to block before running a route. But Romo is already adept at calling for replays and teaching viewers about what happened on the previous play.

After Cincinnati scored an easy touchdown, Romo explained that responsibility for picking up the running back coming out of the backfield belonged to two linebackers. “And you see two rookies have to play in and out on him, and they couldn’t pass that off because they didn’t communicate,” he said. “They’re two rookies.”

Such a moment happens a dozen times during a Romo broadcast. During the Week 2 game, he explained how the New England Patriots rushed five defenders — not for any advantage on the field, but rather to confuse advance scouts charting their tendencies.

He has at least one critic. Brent Musburger, the longtime ESPN and ABC broadcaster who retired last year, speculated that Romo will lose his keen understanding of teams’ tendencies the longer he’s out of uniform.

“Listen, Tony, O.K.,” Musburger said recently on his radio show. “Tony, get off it, O.K. First of all, you’re intruding on your play-by-play man Jim Nantz. We like to watch the game, O.K.? Here’s a memo to all of you people, ‘Oh, this is great.’ Nuh-uh.”

McManus declined to directly address Musburger’s criticism, or to make Romo available for this article. But he made some of the same points as Musburger, albeit more mildly. “I think it has been a little bit overblown,” he said about attention paid to Romo tipping plays. When asked what Romo needed to improve on, he said, “His timing with Jim will continue to get better.”

Collinsworth, who last played in 1988, as a wide receiver, does not think football has evolved all that much since he was playing, suggesting that Romo’s ability to call plays will not diminish the longer he is out of league. Collinsworth said he tries to tell viewers things like the defense dropping a safety on one side, and how the offense is likely to run away from that, before mentioning something really interesting.

“In theory, we are not supposed to talk about what we hear in the broadcast,” he said. “The calls that were made at the line of scrimmage, the kill calls, some of the other calls.”

He added, “That’s the one thing the teams really complain about, that their signals and calls are captured on television and teams are studying those.”

In 2011 the N.F.L. added an “enhanced audio option” to broadcasts, putting microphones on either the starting and backup centers, or both guards. That is why you can increasingly hear quarterback audibles on television, as in 2014 when Peyton Manning’s repeatedly yelling “Omaha” was widely noticed and discussed.

Brian McCarthy, an N.F.L. spokesman, said broadcasters are allowed to comment on anything. The only restriction is that broadcasters cannot isolate audio from those microphones near the quarterback and sync it up with replays. “That’s a competitive issue we look to avoid,” he said.

McManus said he hadn’t heard from any teams complaining about Romo’s commentary.

“I had high expectations, and he has exceeded those,” Jim Rikhoff, CBS’s lead N.F.L. producer, said before noting that Romo is still early in his broadcast career and needs to continue improving. He attributed Romo’s success to a combination of charisma and smarts.

“I think people like him,” he said, “but you are also getting good football information.”

With television audiences for the N.F.L. getting smaller, the league’s new digital rights deal with Verizon Communications represents the latest challenge to the traditional media partnerships that for decades have served as the lifeblood for North America’s richest sports league.

The league and Verizon announced Monday an extension to their mobile streaming agreement through 2022 that will give fans a series of options besides traditional television for watching their local teams, as well as games on Sunday, Monday and Thursday nights, even the playoffs and Super Bowl.

The deal, which will cost Verizon more than $2 billion during the next five years, gives the telecommunications giant the rights to stream games across its variety of digital media brands, including Yahoo Sports, Complex and go90. In addition, fans no longer have to be Verizon customers to gain access to the games, which they can watch regardless of which company is their mobile provider.

CBS, NBC, ESPN and Fox currently pay the NFL some $5 billion a year for the rights to televise those games. Those rights help those networks garner top fees from pay television distributors and help those distributors convince subscribers not to cut off their cable subscriptions.

Rick Cordella, executive vice president and general manager for digital media at NBC Sports, a unit of the pay television distributor Comcast, said the Verizon deal could help expand the reach for NBC’s advertisers, since fans watching the Verizon stream will see NBC’s inventory of ads.

“We are selling one audience, no matter where they watch our content,” Cordella said.

Like previous agreements with Amazon, Twitter and Yahoo, the new Verizon agreement illustrates the N.F.L.’s proclivity to push the envelope to broaden its reach, especially among younger viewers, who may not have a pay television subscription, even if it means potentially angering its television partners as they approach the start of negotiations for new deals.

In a statement announcing the deal, N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said the league was thrilled to get more deeply involved with digital distribution.

“Live N.F.L. action directly on your mobile device — regardless of carrier — will give millions of fans additional ways to follow their favorite sport,” Goodell said.

Hans Schroeder, an N.F.L. executive in charge of media, believes fans won’t choose to watch on their phones instead of their televisions, but instead will add to the television audience. “We think this is a very complementary way of growing, engaging and reaching younger fans that will ultimately become longer term viewers,” he said.

Since 2010, Verizon mobile customers have been able to stream N.F.L. games for free through the N.F.L. Mobile app.

The deal potentially allows Verizon, and the N.F.L., to reach more people, but also does away with what made the previous agreements so lucrative for Verizon: Exclusivity. When signing an extension of the mobile agreement in 2013, Verizon executives said that the number of subscribers the N.F.L. Mobile app helped retain, or add, contributed to the company’s decision to re-sign.

Now Sprint, AT&T and T-Mobile customers will also be allowed to stream N.F.L. games, as long as they go to Verizon-owned apps or websites with their mobile phones.

Over the past few years, Verizon has acquired a spate of digital media companies, including paying more than $9 billion combined to buy AOL and Yahoo, a sign of the company’s growing ambitions at becoming a digital media powerhouse able to challenge the likes of Google and Facebook for advertising dollars.

There are some protections for traditional broadcast partners built into the agreement, which does not extend to streaming on tablets or through smart televisions.

For the N.F.L., the deal is surely a short-term win. Verizon is paying nearly double the amount of money each year and doesn’t retain exclusivity over the games, though they are adding a number of sponsorship benefits. But long term it seems certain to allow for further erosion of pay television subscriptions, and it will challenge the N.F.L.’s partners in legacy media, who are already facing two straight years of declining ratings.

The N.F.L.’s broadcast agreements all expire after the 2022 season. With ratings trending downward and digital rights giants, such as Netflix, Facebook, Amazon and Google, so far balking at paying hundreds of millions, or billions, for sports rights, the N.F.L. could soon be in for a round of tense negotiations.

LONG BEACH, Calif. — If Ed Cunningham had not already seen enough, he would be back in a broadcast booth on Saturday afternoon, serving as the color analyst for another top college football game televised on ABC or ESPN. It is the work he has done each fall for nearly 20 years.

But Cunningham, 48, resigned from one of the top jobs in sports broadcasting because of his growing discomfort with the damage being inflicted on the players he was watching each week. The hits kept coming, right in front of him, until Cunningham said he could not, in good conscience, continue his supporting role in football’s multibillion-dollar apparatus.

“I take full ownership of my alignment with the sport,” he said. “I can just no longer be in that cheerleader’s spot.”

Football has seen high-profile N.F.L. players retire early, even pre-emptively, out of concern about their long-term health, with particular worry for the brain. But Cunningham may be the first leading broadcaster to step away from football for a related reason — because it felt wrong to be such a close witness to the carnage, profiting from a sport that he knows is killing some of its participants.

“In its current state, there are some real dangers: broken limbs, wear and tear,” Cunningham said. “But the real crux of this is that I just don’t think the game is safe for the brain. To me, it’s unacceptable.”

Football has dominated Cunningham’s life, he said, since he began playing as a freshman in high school. He was captain of the University of Washington’s 1991 national championship team and a third-round draft choice in the N.F.L., where he was an offensive lineman for five seasons. He has been a broadcaster since, paired for most of the last decade with the play-by-play announcer Mike Patrick for Saturday afternoon games televised on ABC and ESPN.

As a color analyst, primarily providing commentary between plays, Cunningham built a reputation among college football fans, and even coaches, for his pointed criticism toward what he thought were reckless hits and irresponsible coaching decisions that endangered the health of athletes. His strong opinions often got him denounced on fan message boards and earned him angry calls from coaches and administrators.

“I could hardly disagree with anything he said,” Patrick, who will have a new broadcast partner this season in Cunningham’s absence, said in a phone interview. “The sport is at a crossroads. I love football — college football, pro football, any kind of football. It’s a wonderful sport. But now that I realize what it can do to people, that it can turn 40-, 50-year-old men into walking vegetables, how do you stay silent? Ed was in the vanguard of this. I give him all the credit in the world. And I’m going to be outspoken on it, in part because he led me to that drinking hole.”

Still a sturdy 6-foot-3 and 240 pounds, Cunningham explained his position while sitting in a booth at Legends Sports Bar in Long Beach, near his home. The booth had its own television, silently rebroadcasting an N.F.L. preseason game as Cunningham spoke. He never glanced at it.

He made it plain that he was not becoming an antifootball evangelist. The sport’s long-term success hinges on moving more urgently toward safety, especially at the youth and college levels, he said. He has pointed suggestions on ways to make the game safer.

But he grew weary of watching players be removed from the field on carts with little ceremony. (“We come back from the break and that guy with the broken leg is gone, and it’s just third-and-8,” he said.) He increasingly heard about former players, including former teammates and peers, experiencing the long-term effects of their injuries, especially brain trauma.

“I know a lot of people who say: ‘I just can’t cheer for the big hits anymore. I used to go nuts, and now I’m like, I hope he gets up,’” Cunningham said. His eyes welled with tears. “It’s changing for all of us. I don’t currently think the game is safe for the brain. And, oh, by the way, I’ve had teammates who have killed themselves. Dave Duerson put a shotgun to his chest so we could study his brain.”

Duerson was a teammate of Cunningham’s with the Phoenix (now Arizona) Cardinals in 1992 and 1993. He killed himself in 2011 and was posthumously found to have chronic traumatic encephalopathy, or C.T.E., the debilitating brain disease that scientists say is caused by hits to the head. It has been discovered in the brains of more than 100 former N.F.L. players.

Cunningham was also a professional teammate of Andre Waters in Arizona, and he has vivid memories of being humiliated in his first college start by the future Hall of Fame linebacker Junior Seau. Waters and Seau killed themselves and were later found to have C.T.E., too.

“This is as personal as it gets,” Cunningham said. “I’m not hypothesizing here.”

Cunningham displays none of the Alzheimer’s-like symptoms that cripple many of those who are later found to have C.T.E., which can be diagnosed only posthumously. He said he recently went through testing that revealed no signs of brain problems.

He was in the prime of his career as a broadcaster, and most likely could have continued to make a comfortable living doing it for decades.

“You could put him on any game, and you knew he’d be rock solid and prepared and opinionated and smart and thoughtful,” said Lee Fitting, an ESPN senior coordinating producer who oversees college football coverage for the network. “He was always one guy you never worried about. He’s a consummate professional.”

Cunningham, too, spoke glowingly about ESPN and the job he left behind.

“I was being paid a really nice six-figure salary for not a lot of days of work, and a live television gig that, except for nonsports fans, people would beat me up to take,” Cunningham said. “I’m leaving a job that’s great. It’s not kind of good. It’s great.”

ESPN laid off dozens of on-air employees in April, but Cunningham was not among them. As the news broke that day, and Cunningham learned of colleagues losing their jobs, he made the decision that had been percolating in his mind for several years. He called and resigned.

At first, Cunningham told ESPN executives that he was leaving to spend more time with his sons, ages 3 and 5, and because of his workload as a film and television producer. He was a producer for “Undefeated,” a documentary about an urban high school football team, and has a string of projects lined up.

“Those are two of the issues,” Cunningham said. He waited weeks before he revealed the third. “The big one was my ethical concerns.”

A football broadcaster leaving a job because of concerns over the game’s safety appears to have no precedent.

“I’ve been in the business 20 years and it’s the first time I’ve ever heard of anything like that,” Fitting said. “But this is the world we live in now. More and more players are stepping away in a given season or a given year, and who knows. Are there other announcers out there who have been afraid to do this? I don’t know. Is he going to be a pioneer in this small niche? I don’t know. Who knows what the future holds.”

If nothing else, Cunningham’s decision could prompt some self-examination among those who watch, promote, coach or otherwise participate in football without actually playing it.

Al Michaels, the veteran broadcaster who does play-by-play for NBC’s Sunday night N.F.L. broadcasts, said he did not see his role in the booth as an ethical dilemma.

“I don’t feel that my being part of covering the National Football League is perpetuating danger,” he said in a phone interview. “If it’s not me, somebody else is going to do this. There are too many good things about football, too many things I enjoy about it. I can understand maybe somebody feeling that way, but I’d be hard-pressed to find somebody else in my business who would make that decision.”

Those especially close to Cunningham were surprised only by the timing.

“He had certainly broadly hinted at it,” Patrick said. “But I thought it was maybe two or three years down the road.”

Certain episodes Cunningham watched from the broadcast booth stick with him. Ten years ago, he was quoted in The New York Times for an article about college players returning to games after sustaining concussions. One of the cases involved the Stanford quarterback Tavita Pritchard, who was injured during a game against Notre Dame that Patrick and Cunningham broadcast.

“Announcers are part of the industrial complex of college football, and I think we’ve turned a blind eye toward the violence — we have to protect these kids,” Cunningham said at the time.

Cunningham, now a decade older, recounted that episode, among many others.

“That’s 10 years before I walked away, right?” he said. “What took me so long?”

The last straw, he said, was working the Outback Bowl in December, when he saw the Iowa quarterback C.J. Beathard hobbled, taking hits and being left in the game until the final two minutes of a 30-3 blowout loss to Florida. Beathard went on to be taken in the third round of the N.F.L. draft by the San Francisco 49ers. The bowl game (“a game that means less than zero,” Cunningham said) still rankles Cunningham.

“I know some of the coaches from that team, known them for years,” he said. “And it was hard for me not to walk down after the game and just say: ‘Dudes, what are you doing? Really? What are you doing?’ These are just kids.”

Cunningham teared up again. “I get emotional,” he said.

He said he hoped being publicly forthcoming about his rationale for leaving the broadcast booth would further the conversation about football safety. His desire, though, is not to undermine the game but to help it.

“I think people are starting to think, What should we do here?” Cunningham said. “You can’t throw out everything. You can’t say it’s all broken. You have to change the paradigm. How should it be different 20 years from now? It’ll be different, and I think quite a bit different. And that’s O.K.”

Among his ideas: No contact before high school. Limit the number of plays per game in which a player may participate, something like a pitch count in baseball. Tougher rules, and even in-helmet sensors, for players who dip their heads to tackle. And changes to substantially soften the exterior of football helmets, into something more like memory foam, to reduce the weight and its utility as a weapon.

Cunningham is happy to talk about all of that. He just will not be doing it through a microphone while sitting in a booth high above a football field. He has seen enough.