ISTANBUL

The American basketball player Ekpe Udoh ambles through his club in Istanbul the way a modern-day Gulliver might walk through Lilliput.

Mr. Udoh, 30, is a 6-foot-10 colossus. The hundreds of fans waiting for him at the Fenerbahce sports club are significantly shorter. And like the diminutive Lilliputians in Jonathan Swift’s satire, they don’t want to let this giant out of their sight.

These fans, however, come in peace — they want selfies with him, not his freedom. “Ekpe, this way!” He turns, he smiles, they click. “Ekpe, over here!” Turn. Smile. Click. Wading down a short series of steps, Mr. Udoh takes seven minutes to reach the street below.

“He’s not just a player,” says one 29-year-old fan, Emre Elmas, when asked to explain his devotion to Mr. Udoh. “He researches the Turkish culture. He understands the Turkish people.”

Mr. Udoh, a former center and power forward for the Golden State Warriors, and Milwaukee Bucks in the N.B.A., is by no means the first American to play basketball in Turkey. American teachers brought the sport here in the first decade of the 20th century (and an American television series, “The White Shadow,” popularized it in the 1980s).

Nor is he the only American currently plying his trade here: 131 Americans played for Turkish clubs this past season.

He can, however, lay claim to being the most popular. His on-court achievements help. In his two seasons with Fenerbahce, Turkey’s leading club, he has helped it win two domestic titles as well as this year’s championship of the Euroleague, the world’s most competitive league outside the United States.

But it is his behavior off the court that has contributed most to Mr. Udoh’s renown.

He runs a book club for his more literary fans — memorably sending them Sabahattin Ali’s Turkish classic, “Madonna in a Fur Coat,” to read last November.

He plunged into what he called his “Ataturk project,” a personal crash course in the life and ideas of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey.

He keeps a photo blog of his favorite Istanbul restaurants, at one point finding his way to Ciya Sofrasi, an acclaimed Anatolian kitchen once profiled in The New Yorker.

He has organized a cinema night for a group of fans and visited schools. He sent high school seniors a good-luck message ahead of their exams. “I never saw something like that in my entire life,” said one student who appreciated the gesture, 17-year-old Zehra Tanguzer. “He’s not just Ekpe Udoh the basketball player. He’s like a big brother.”

And Turkey’s basketball experts tend to agree.

“There have been many American basketball players in Turkey since the 1980s, and they were also talented, but Ekpe is different because of his relationship with the fans,” said Caner Eler, the editor of Socrates, Turkey’s leading sports magazine. “He has a beautiful awareness of the other sides of life, outside sports.”

By his own admission, Mr. Udoh was not always so enthusiastic about his move to Turkey. After he signed with Fenerbahce in mid-2015, it took him several months to admit that his N.B.A. dream was — for now — over. After four middling seasons with Golden State and Milwaukee, he had just spent a depressing year on the bench with the Los Angeles Clippers, averaging less than four minutes a game.

Arriving in Istanbul, Mr. Udoh felt depressed and lonely, thousands of miles from his family and friends. The son of Nigerian immigrants — his father a radiologist, his mother a nurse — he spent his childhood in Oklahoma and most of his college days at Baylor University in Texas. Little had prepared him for a life abroad.

“Hoo, that was brutal,” Mr. Udoh remembered during a recent courtside interview. “I probably didn’t accept it until January, February that I was overseas.” Finally, he thought: “Yeah, I’m here. Let’s make the most of it.”

And that, initially, involved deciphering the identity of the man whose face looms over most offices and shops in the country. Mr. Udoh found this face hard to escape — first seeing him in the gym, then in his apartment. “You’re like: Who is this man?” Mr. Udoh said. “Yeah, he must be important.”

This man, of course, was Ataturk. And as time went on, Mr. Udoh became increasingly interested in him — visiting a museum devoted to Ataturk’s life, posting photographs of himself standing next to Ataturk’s portraits and buying two Ataturk biographies.

“Of course he wasn’t perfect,” Mr. Udoh said. But, he added, “I like him a lot because of women’s rights — he pushed women to do more, be intelligent.”

“I was impressed,” he said.

There is little pretension to Mr. Udoh’s curiosity. When asked by one Turkish journalist about Orhan Pamuk, Turkey’s best-known living author, Mr. Udoh replied, “Who’s that?”

And when pressed on his recent meeting with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan, after Fenerbahce’s Euroleague triumph, Mr. Udoh was more interested in discussing the leader’s 1,100-room palace.

“It makes the White House look like a regular house. It is incredible how big this place is,” Mr. Udoh concluded. “Sheesh! And guards are everywhere possible.”

Security has been a frequent concern for Mr. Udoh since his arrival. His two years in Turkey have coincided with an attempted coup last summer and two militant campaigns (one by the Islamic State, the other by Kurdish nationalists), including a New Year’s Eve attack at Reina, a popular nightclub that lies across the Bosporus from Mr. Udoh’s apartment.

When an Islamic State activist killed 39 people there, Mr. Udoh had already prayed and gone to bed. But when he awoke in the morning, news of the attack touched a nerve.

“The fact that I’ve been there — you know, we celebrated our Turkish championship there last year — and this is right across the water, you got international people dying. That’s too close,” Mr. Udoh said. “You’re, like, looking death in the eyes almost.”

But in general, Mr. Udoh said, he has been surprised by how normal and pleasant Turkey is — in fact, not so different from what he was used to at home.

“Living in the States, you see the bombings, you see how the agenda on Muslims is right now in the world,” said Mr. Udoh, who had previously left the United States only a handful of times. “So you’re like, ‘Oh, my god, how do I deal with all this whoop-de-whoop’ and whatever? Then you get out here, and it’s like, ‘Oh, man, it’s beautiful.’”

In fact, the disjunction between what he had been led to believe about Turkey and his experience living here inspired him to question much of what he knew about his home country.

So in tandem with his Turkish studies, Mr. Udoh began to re-examine what he knew of black history in America. First he read “The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks,” which explores medical experimentation on black Americans. Then he took on Harriet A. Washington’s “Medical Apartheid,” which addresses the same issue.

This process of discovery and improvement continued on the court. In the United States, Mr. Udoh was considered a weak offensive player. But since he arrived in Turkey, basketball experts say, his shooting and attacking play has improved — a change that Mr. Udoh attributes to Fenerbahce’s coach, Zeljko Obradovic.

“He worked really hard. He evolved,” said Ugur Ozan Sulak, a basketball commentator for beIN Sports, a popular satellite channel. “Now he’s a versatile player, and he’s probably the most wanted player in Europe currently.”

Once American players end up in the Euroleague, they rarely return to the N.B.A. But Mr. Udoh’s transformation has been so formidable that some think he could be an exception, with rumors of a move to the Philadelphia 76ers this summer. (“No comment,” Mr. Udoh said.)

Some of Mr. Udoh’s fans cannot believe he would accept such a move, so enthusiastic has he been for all things Turkish. “He won’t leave,” said Mr. Elmas, the fan outside Fenerbahce stadium. “He loves it here.”

But the likes of Mr. Elmas may soon be dealt a cruel blow. “At the end of the day, it is a business as well,” Mr. Udoh said coyly. “And the N.B.A. is the best league in the world. Who doesn’t want to be at the best, you know?”

MINNEAPOLIS — John Kundla sat in a wheelchair playing cribbage opposite his 68-year-old son, calling out numbers in a quiet, deep voice. The efficiency apartment here had a twin bed under a painting of Jesus tending sheep; a desk topped with a large magnifying glass and a Bible; and, resting on a shelf, a photograph taken on a basketball court in 1952 showing Kundla atop the shoulders of a jubilant George Mikan, the sport’s most dominant big man in the first half of the 20th century.

Kundla, 99, was the head coach of the Minneapolis Lakers’ championship teams of the 1940s and 1950s — professional basketball’s first modern dynasty. He is the oldest living Hall of Famer in any of the four major American team sports and one of three N.B.A. coaches, along with Red Auerbach and Phil Jackson, to have won three or more consecutive titles.

Kundla is “a forgotten legend of basketball,” according to the historian John Christgau, author of the book “The Origins of the Jump Shot.” Kundla’s Lakers ruled the league in the years before the shot clock, when players were still shooting free throws underhand. Kundla coached in the N.B.A.’s first four All-Star Games, and his five league titles are tied for third with Pat Riley and Gregg Popovich. He is also the only coach in league history to win a title in his first two N.B.A. seasons (the first when it was called the Basketball Association of America) — a feat that Steve Kerr will match if the Golden State Warriors win this season’s championship.

Yet even at the peak of his team’s success, Kundla was so laid-back during games and overshadowed by his talented players that The Sporting News once said, “Few ever heard of John Kundla.”

After coaching, Kundla taught physical education; today, he lives about five blocks east of the Mississippi River, in an assisted living home where he plays bingo several days a week, and where, sometimes, he positions his wheelchair a few inches from a small analog television and watches basketball, marveling at the size and speed of modern players.

Kundla dresses and cooks by himself, and he exercises daily on a stationary bicycle. His hearing and eyesight have waned, though, and recollections of certain events and facts — like the circumstances surrounding his Lakers hiring and how many championships he won — have grown hazy with time. Identifying dates and years can give him trouble.

But many memories remain vivid and accurate: details about his youth; the story of how he met his wife; the names and tendencies of players he coached. He still visualizes and recounts plays that he designed around Mikan. He tells of how playing in New York made him a “nervous wreck”; of how after winning one title there, he and his players celebrated at the Copacabana nightclub; of the joy he felt in that moment, after capturing another championship, when Mikan lifted him onto his shoulders.

And it was early one recent evening, in front of a shelf stuffed with worn books on his Minneapolis Lakers and on basketball history, that Kundla spoke about his life, and the game that has defined it.

Born in Star Junction, Pa., Kundla moved to Minneapolis at age 5 with his mother, an Austro-Hungarian immigrant. Neither spoke English. But Kundla learned the language — and basketball — and went on to star in high school and at the University of Minnesota. In 1937, The New York Times heralded the 6-foot-2 Kundla as one “of the finest players in the Midwest.”

In the early 1940s, he coached at Ascension, a Catholic grade school, and then at DeLaSalle, a high school on an island in the Mississippi River. After serving in the Navy during World War II — he played pickup basketball games on a ship in the Atlantic Ocean, he said — he coached at the College of St. Thomas in St. Paul.

In 1947, two Minnesota businessmen bought the Detroit Gems, a team in the National Basketball League that had disbanded after a 4-40 season. The new club was called the Lakers, and Kundla, at 31, became its coach.

The franchise signed Jim Pollard, a swift and high-leaping 6-4 forward, and Mikan, the 6-10 center who wore thick glasses and had an unstoppable hook shot with each hand.

Kundla developed set plays, including a two-man game involving his two superstars, and preached wise shot selection.

“Don’t shoot too quick,” he urged his players. “Nobody in for a rebound.” He emphasized fundamentals, like sprinting back on defense after missed shots and communicating passionately while defending screens.

The Lakers were 43-17 and won the 1948 N.B.L. championship. The next season, they joined the B.A.A. (which the N.B.A. considers its predecessor), defeating the Washington Capitols, coached by Auerbach, in the finals.

The Lakers played most of their home games at Minneapolis Auditorium, which had steep seats and a theatrical stage behind one basket. Christgau, 82, who attended Lakers games there growing up, recalls peering through the arena’s cigar smoke during timeouts to see an “always calm and cool” Kundla, with “players all clumped around him, like a hog pile, all listening and paying attention.”

Road trips often meant long journeys by train, during which Kundla and his players bonded over card games.

“It was like a family playing for John,” said Arnie Ferrin, 90, who played for the Lakers from 1948 to 1951.

Before the 1949-50 season, the B.A.A. and the N.B.L. merged to form the N.B.A. The Lakers acquired the rookies Vern Mikkelsen, a rugged and savvy big man, and Slater Martin, a short, fast-legged Texan known for gritty defense. They were 51-17 and beat the Syracuse Nationals in the championship.

Guard Pep Saul, whom the Lakers purchased in 1952, was struck by how quiet Kundla was compared with other coaches.

If a player made a mistake, “he didn’t holler at you,” Saul, 92, said. “He would talk to you like a man and say, ‘Here’s what you have to do to correct it.’ He was a teacher as well as a coach.”

The Lakers kept winning, even after the league doubled the lane’s width in 1951 to slow down Mikan, who had led the N.B.A. with more than 27 points per game for three straight seasons.

They beat the Knicks in the 1952 and 1953 championships, and in 1954, they won their third straight title and fifth in six years.

By late 1956, Mikan and Pollard had retired. The game had evolved: Scoring was up — the shot clock had been instituted in 1954 — and the racial makeup of the league was changing. The Lakers’ title teams had been all white; in the 1958-59 season, the team had three black players.

The Lakers were 33-39 that season. Behind the rookie Elgin Baylor, they advanced to the championship before falling to the Boston Celtics, led by Bob Cousy and Bill Russell.

Kundla resigned at age 42 with a 423-302 record. (In 1960, the Lakers moved to Los Angeles, becoming the league’s first West Coast team.)

Kundla, meanwhile, took over as head coach at the University of Minnesota. During his tenure, the basketball program included black players for the first time, and he became its first coach to give scholarships to African-American players. (Hate mail arrived regularly at his house, he said.)

Led by the future N.B.A. All-Stars Lou Hudson and Archie Clark, the Gophers were 17-7 in 1963-64 and 19-5 in 1964-65. In 1968, Kundla retired, finishing his career there with a 110-105 record. He accepted a position teaching physical education on the university’s St. Paul campus, including courses in basketball and tennis.

He and his wife, Marie, who had met as undergraduates, had raised six children in a white, two-story suburban house with a wooden hoop nailed to the garage. The couple went ice skating together every Tuesday and took their children on fishing trips.

In 1981, Kundla retired from teaching. Throughout the years, he had remained close with Mikan and Mikkelsen; often, the three would meet for breakfast, and reminisce.

In a 1992 column for USA Today, Peter Vecsey, lamenting Kundla’s exclusion from the Hall of Fame, labeled him “all but forgotten.”

From Kundla’s second-floor window, one can see beyond the river, to downtown Minneapolis, where the Lakers’ arena once stood. He moved into this assisted living community in 2008, the year after Marie died, after 67 years of marriage.

Kundla’s son James, a retired railroad track worker, walks over every morning from his nearby home and keeps him company.

Once a month, Kundla rides by bus with fellow residents to a church downtown for bingo and lunch organized by the League of Catholic Women. He also plays bingo downstairs and at an adjoining nursing home, where he sits beside residents in need and helps them with their cards.

Kundla keeps his own winnings, green notes called Bingo Bucks, in a billfold in the cupboard under his TV, which he redeems every Friday for Hershey bars.

At night, Kundla, who has short silver hair and wears hearing aids, watches TV programs like “Dancing With the Stars” and reruns of “The Lawrence Welk Show.” Earlier this year, James said, the cable company offered a free promotion allowing Kundla to watch N.B.A. games daily. But when the deal expired, the additional cost was “not in the budget,” James said.

Kundla listens to Minnesota Timberwolves games on the radio, and when he watches a game on TV, he looks for those “little things,” he said — like distinguishing between a good and bad shot — that consumed him as a Lakers coach.

Basketball has changed for the better, he said. Defensive intensity has improved (“Jeez, they get after you!” he said), and when a team hustles back on defense after a missed shot, he is delighted.

The 3-point shot excites him.

“That’s the big difference,” he said. “You get behind — you can catch up, you know?”

Referring to today’s players, Kundla said: “It’s unbelievable how big they’ve grown. But there’s still finesse in there — the way they handle that ball, pass it around.”

For Kundla, who turns 100 on July 3 (“Another day and I would have been born with a bang,” he likes to say), proper recognition came relatively late in life: He was inducted into the  Basketball Hall of Fame at age 78, in 1995. The next year, for the “N.B.A. at 50” celebration, he was voted one of the top 10 coaches in league history.

In 2002, during a ceremony at Staples Center in Los Angeles, Kundla and living Minneapolis Lakers players were awarded championship rings, and two banners commemorating their dynasty were raised.

Since then, four of the five Hall of Famers who played on Kundla’s title teams have died: Mikan, Mikkelsen, Martin and Clyde Lovellette. (Pollard died in 1993.)

Bob Harrison, 88, who hit a long buzzer-beater for the Lakers to win Game 1 of the inaugural postmerger N.B.A. championship in 1950, was emotional when reached at his home in Palm City, Fla., and asked about Kundla.

In 1954, Harrison said, upon being traded to the Milwaukee Hawks, Kundla sat him down and apologized.

“He made me feel important,” Harrison said. “A lot of coaches are more interested in building their reputation, and John wasn’t like that. Naturally, he wanted to win, and he did. But he did it with kindness and love.”

One evening in May, Kundla sat glued to a TV in the dimly lit lounge down the hall from his apartment, watching Game 1 of the Eastern Conference finals.

“Look at the tattoos on the shoulders — jeez,” Kundla said, as the Cavaliers’ J. R. Smith shot free throws in the first quarter.

The second quarter was a noisy blur of fast breaks, alley-oops and acrobatic layups by the host Cavaliers. Kundla looked riveted, gradually inching his wheelchair closer to the screen.

On one play, Cavaliers guard Kyrie Irving blew past a defender on a fancy behind-the-back dribble and converted a layup.

“Jeez,” Kundla muttered, “poor defense there by Toronto.”

With the Cavaliers ahead by 15, Kundla watched as LeBron James drove the baseline, cupped the ball in his right hand and dunked ferociously, screaming in celebration as he backpedaled.

“Oh, my God, another one,” Kundla said.

At halftime, Kundla returned to his room. A nurse arrived to check in and then left, and Kundla was alone.

On a desk next to his bed was a picture of Kundla and Marie on their wedding day, and a photo of a smiling Mikkelsen in his later years, signed: “To John, my leader and good friend.”

Kundla settled into bed. It was dark now, but from the wall by his pillow came a radiant orange glow: from a tiny night light, in the design of a basketball.

Steve Scheer is a basketball junkie. He had often fantasized about eavesdropping on a coach’s huddle during timeouts. The short, edited snippets on some telecasts were hardly enough to satisfy his appetite for access.

Unlike most fans, though, Scheer was in a position to fulfill his wish. As a senior coordinating producer for college basketball at Fox Sports, and a 37-year sports television veteran, Scheer’s suggestion for an all-access, commercial-free, live basketball telecast was able to become a reality.

On Friday, when St. John’s played at Seton Hall in a Big East Conference women’s basketball game, both head coaches wore microphones throughout a commercial-free telecast on Fox Sports 2. Viewers were able to hear not only what was said inside the huddle, but also the live interactions and directions from the sideline and the coaches’ talks inside the locker rooms at halftime.

It is believed to be the first time a network has provided this amount of unfiltered content in a live sports presentation. The one concession was that the game was broadcast with a five-second delay to censor any colorful language (though that did not turn out to be entirely effective).

“I’m as excited for this event as anything we’ve done this year,” John Entz, the executive producer of Fox Sports, said in a telephone interview before the game.

Early on, the broadcast sounded muddled as the announcers, Lisa Byington and LaChina Robinson, struggled to be heard over the screams of the coaches. But they began to find a rhythm speaking while the chatter from the sidelines was quietest.

That chatter — “Chin! Chin! Go!” Seton Hall Coach Tony Bozzella shouted out in a play call to his team — offered a fresh glimpse into the orchestrations of a college basketball game. Coaches instructed players, mumbled to assistants, and fumed at the referees.

“Every call is going against Seton Hall!” Bozzella seethed after a blocking call. “Every one. This is ridiculous. Ridiculous. I’m glad I’m miked up because this stinks!”

At halftime, viewers got a better sense of the styles of each team. In the St. John’s locker room, players sat in a tight U-formation around Coach Joe Tartamella, who spent his time in front of a whiteboard sketching out plays. On the other side, Bozzella remained outside his team’s locker room for 10 minutes as he huddled with his coaching staff in the hallway. With only a few minutes remaining, he entered the room to clapping from his team.

Viewers were treated to a tight, competitive game. With a little over two minutes left, and the game tied at 57, Bozzella made no effort to conceal what he wanted from his team.

“We’re running Princeton right now for Titi,” he told his players in the huddle, referring to guard LaTecia Smith. Seton Hall eventually won, 64-59.

Tartamella was so emotional in the closing quarter that a couple of curse words slipped into the broadcast. There were also some technical difficulties early on, including noisy audio signals for several minutes and the game clock’s disappearing for a bit.

However, by the second half, the production quality was cleaned up. After the game, Bozzella let the camera into the locker room ahead of him. “You’re going to like this,” he said. The room exploded with cheering and chanting.

Val Ackerman, the commissioner of the Big East Conference, said she believed television sports had long been headed in this direction, as fans clamor for more and more behind-the-scenes access. At the same time, women’s basketball telecasts have become so stagnant that ESPN chose to broadcast some first- and second-round N.C.A.A. tournament games remotely last season.

“I and others in women’s basketball have tried to figure out what we can do to keep this great sport vibrant,” said Ackerman, who was the first president of the W.N.B.A., from 1996 to 2005, before taking over the Big East in 2013.

“How it is expressed on TV is part of the story,” she said. “This appeals to me because it’s a chance for women’s basketball to take a leadership position in how the sport is being presented to fans.”

Ackerman said the league would assess whether to allow another broadcast like Friday’s in the future. But Entz said he did not consider it to be a stunt, indicating that, if all went smoothly, Fox Sports would almost certainly want to try it again.

“Viewers and people at home are expecting more access. They’re expecting to get closer to the game,” he said. “They want things they aren’t used to seeing.”

The live transmission of the coaches’ in-game commentary — be it strategy, encouragement, discipline or invective-laced tirades — is taking reality television to another level. It harks back to NBC’s attempt, in 1980, to broadcast an N.F.L. game without announcers, a decision that was considered a flop.

Scheer said he had floated the idea to Big East coaches several years ago and had been encouraged by their responses. Ackerman said she had needed to receive endorsements from Tartamella and Bozzella before approving the initiative.

After practice on Wednesday, Bozzella was adamant about the need for women’s basketball to break through on television channels already oversaturated with college basketball. He recalled the former Tennessee coach Pat Summitt’s willingness to try new things, such as the first women’s college game played outdoors, against Arizona State in 2000.

“Growing the game isn’t just doing a survey or a kids’ day or a clinic for 30 people,” he said. “How are we going to go outside the box? When faced with an opportunity like this, why say no?”

Bozzella said he had no plans to change his coaching style for the cameras. He said he had encouraged the players he was recruiting to watch the telecast.

“The game of basketball isn’t just the play you’re running,” Bozzella said. “There’s a lot of intensity, emotion, psychological play. A kid misses three shots, what is Coach B saying to the kid?”

What might be of greater concern is the point at which the cameras become too invasive, infringing on the privacy of coach-player relationships and turning a once-safe space — the locker room at halftime — into another fishbowl.

“Our locker room is very energetic, to say the least,” Seton Hall guard Kaity Healy said. “We’re probably going to act the same, because that’s how we play our game.”

Ackerman said before the game that she planned to attend, but that she expected to spend most of the time inside the production truck, watching it on television.

“This is a chance to show another side to what goes on during a game,” Ackerman said. “It’s a step that men’s basketball hasn’t taken yet, and our thought was, ‘Let’s let women’s basketball have a shot.’”

OAKLAND, Calif. — Jason Terry had learned enough from 114 career playoff games and had seen enough in 17 N.B.A. seasons to know that his teammates could use a motivational boost against the Golden State Warriors. More than anything, he realized that he and his teammates had nothing to lose — nothing, that is, except another game.

And so, with the Rockets’ dysfunctional season teetering on a cliff before Wednesday’s Game 5 in their first-round playoff series against the Warriors, Terry broke the emergency glass and guaranteed that the Rockets would win to prolong the series, if only for a couple of days. They were just words, of course, but Terry could only hope that they resonated.

Instead, like so much else for the Rockets, whose season bore more than a vague resemblance to a late-night telenovela, Terry’s guarantee had as much life and lift as an anvil. It was not going to make a difference, not with this collection of misfits and certainly not against a team as cohesive as the Warriors.

“I’m the super motivator,” Terry said Wednesday night. “That’s been my M.O. throughout my career. It just didn’t hit home with this group.”

The gulf between these two teams was almost alarming. Just one season removed from the Western Conference finals, the Rockets floundered for months. It was merely more of the same against the Warriors, whose 114-81 victory clinched a lopsided series and, perhaps just as important, ended their opponents’ suffering.

Afterward, in a quiet visiting locker room at Oracle Arena, James Harden alluded to the Rockets’ having had “too many distractions.” Dwight Howard mumbled something about “ups and downs.” Terry, on the other hand, cut straight through the static and pointed to the frayed partnership between Harden and Howard, who had most likely played his final game with the Rockets.

“They just couldn’t coexist to have success this year,” Terry said. “Chemistry was a big issue for us all year long. We just didn’t have it.”

Chemistry can be a nebulous, over-cited concept in pro sports, but Terry is a believer. And he could see the difference between the Rockets and the Warriors, especially given how the Warriors had compensated for the absence of the best player on the planet. Nothing changed. They looked like the same team that had won 73 games during the regular season.

“That team over there is truly an example of team,” Terry said. “They all play well together. Someone’s down? Someone else steps up.”

The Warriors played terrific basketball without Stephen Curry in the series’s final two games. In fact, after Curry sprained his right knee at the end of the first half of Sunday’s Game 4, the Warriors went on to outscore the Rockets by 60 points for the remainder of the series. On Wednesday, the Warriors led by 17 points after the first quarter. It was never close.

This should all come with a huge caveat, of course: The Warriors were playing the Rockets, whose mere presence in the playoffs seemed to defy both logic and good taste. And Golden State needs Curry as it moves forward. Perhaps not so much against the overachieving Portland Trail Blazers or the injury-ravaged Los Angeles Clippers, who are still vying to advance out of the first round for the right to face the Warriors in the conference semifinals. But the Oklahoma City Thunder and the San Antonio Spurs loom on the same side of the bracket.

“We do feel confident that we can win games without him,” Warriors Coach Steve Kerr said of Curry, “but we don’t really want to have to. So hopefully Steph will be back soon.”

Kerr added: “We just don’t have the fireworks that Steph provides. So we’ve got to make sure we’re more solid, which we have been the last couple games in particular. But it’s good for our guys’ confidence. I think what pleases me the most is literally every single guy on our roster contributed during this series.”

One of those key contributors was Shaun Livingston, an unflappable point guard who scored 16 points in each of his three starts in Curry’s absence — first when Curry missed two games in the middle of the series with an ankle sprain, and later when Curry hurt his knee. Livingston is almost serene on the court. Little affects him, and it is a luxury for the Warriors to have someone who can so capably help fill the void. (The Warriors announced Monday that Curry would be re-evaluated in two weeks.)

“We are blessed,” Kerr said. “We are really lucky. You lose your point guard, you lose the M.V.P, and to be able to put Shaun Livingston out there? He’s a fantastic basketball player.”

At about the same time, not far from where Kerr was speaking, Terry was circling back to the notion that it helps when teammates actually like each other, that there needs to be a “tightknit bond” for players to achieve something special. That was clearly the case for the Warriors last season when they won the championship. And it appears to be happening again.

Consider their willingness to share, a grade-school concept that still applies to millionaires in the N.B.A. In five games against the Rockets, the Warriors assisted on 70.6 percent of their field goals. The Rockets, by comparison, assisted on 54.5 percent of their field goals.

“Move the ball,” the Warriors’ Draymond Green said, “because it just creates rhythm. Even if you don’t shoot, just touching it and moving it on creates rhythm for everyone.”

Without their top player, for now if not forever, the Warriors are continuing to play the only way they know how: together. It might just be enough.

As the clock passed the 3 p.m. trade deadline, N.B.A. fans were waiting impatiently for the blockbuster deals that had been discussed for weeks. One major deal went down: Nerlens Noel is heading to Dallas from Philadelphia.

Some lesser deals were also concluded, but the trades that would remake teams did not materialize.

The Knicks kept Carmelo Anthony, despite speculation otherwise, and a deal that would have sent Derrick Rose to the Timberwolves for Ricky Rubio fell through.

The player who was probably the most talked about over the last week, Paul George, looked like he would be staying with the Pacers even though he can opt out of his contract in 2018.

George, 26, has been with the Pacers for seven seasons, four of them as an All-Star, and two trips to the conference finals. He bounced back from a serious leg injury on national team duty to once again average 20 points a game the last two seasons. Losing him would have been be a blow to Pacers fans.

The 76ers are getting trade deadline day started by swapping one of their big men. But it’s not Jahlil Okafor who is leaving town, as many expected. Instead, it’s the defensive ace Nerlens Noel who will go to Dallas. In return, the Sixers will get center Andrew Bogut, 32; swingman Justin Anderson; and a protected first-round pick, according to multiple news media reports citing anonymous sources.

Bogut is in the last year of his contract, and doesn’t seem like a candidate for a long-term stay in Philly.

After a brief experiment with winning some games, the Sixers seem to have returned to the days of dumping assets. They traded Ersan Ilyasova, their second leading scorer, to the Hawks on Wednesday. In return they got 32-year-old Tiago Splitter, who is injured and hasn’t played this season. Okafor could still go, too, maybe to the Bulls. Somewhere, Sam Hinkie is smiling.

Dallas has had a tough year, but with Dirk Nowitzki playing again and a 22-year-old center of promise like Noel joining the team, things could be looking up.

After weeks of breathless speculation about his future, Carmelo Anthony is sticking with the Knicks.

Thursday afternoon’s N.B.A. trade deadline passed without movement involving Anthony, despite the team’s willingness to engage potential trade partners. Any potential deals for Anthony would have been complicated by the no-trade clause he has in his contract, meaning he would have needed to approve the deal.

Anthony, 32, is averaging 23.4 points and 6 rebounds a game this season while shooting 44.3 percent from the field. But he has had a turbulent relationship with Phil Jackson, the team president, who had indicated through social media posts that he was willing to move on from Anthony and rebuild around a young core headlined by Kristaps Porzingis, their 21-year-old power forward.

The Knicks, who have been struggling again this season, were 23-34 ahead of their game Thursday night against the Cleveland Cavaliers. Anthony was expected to be in uniform.

The second biggest deal of the day was a multiplayer deal between The Thunder and Bulls. Oklahoma City gets starting forward Taj Gibson and a backup, Doug McDermott. Chicago gets rookie Cameron Payne, plus backups Joffrey Lauvergne and Anthony Morrow, Yahoo Sports reported. Also, Deron Williams, 32, was waived by the Dallas Mavericks and was said to be looking to join the Cavaliers.

Among the deals rumored that did not happen as of the deadline:

■ Andre Drummond did not leave Detroit.

■ The Celtics, one of the teams most heavily talked about over the last few days, made no moves

■ The Cavaliers did not make a major deal to give LeBron James some more help for the playoffs.

MELBOURNE, Australia — With more and more N.F.L. players kneeling during the national anthem in protest of police killings of African-Americans, a familiar cry has resurfaced: Politics has no place in sport. 

But of course, politics has an unmistakable place in sporting history, and there is perhaps no more obvious example than the 1968 Olympics, when two African-American medalists raised their fists, eliciting outrage not just at the Americans but also at the Australian standing with them at the podium.

Peter Norman, the Australian runner, knew in advance what the two other athletes — Tommie Smith and John Carlos — would be doing, and he was ostracized in Australia for years.

Ray Weinberg, his coach, now says that watching the way Colin Kaepernick has been similarly pushed aside shows the lessons of tolerance and respect for dissent have yet to be learned.

“I would suggest to you that they haven’t been learned at all,” Mr. Weinberg said in an interview on Wednesday. ”I don’t have a simple answer to it.”

Australian athletes are paying close attention to the fierce conflict that Donald Trump has stirred up by repeatedly criticizing football players taking a knee and denying N.B.A. champions an invitation to the White House. Though the two countries’ histories are very different, they note, there are enough similarities when it comes to race and the backlash against protest for the situation in the United States to reignite this country’s own debate about sport, race and protest.

“The way that people in the positions of leadership respond says a lot,” said Heritier Lumumba, a former Australian Football League player who has spoken out frequently about racism in Australian football. “Did you see Gregg Popovich speak?” he said, referring to the San Antonio Spurs coach’s comments earlier this week. “To me, that should be the norm.”

In Australia, sport and progressive issues have long been intertwined. That has regularly played out in the A.F.L., where an on-field protest by Aboriginal player Nicky Winmar led to the league instituting a code of conduct prohibiting racial vilification in the ’90s.

Last week, that league again rocked political waters when it temporarily changed the three-lettered logo at its headquarters to “YES” — indicating support for same-sex marriage in an ongoing government survey of Australians.

And in other sports too, the discussion in the United States is rippling through. On Monday, much-maligned Australian tennis player Nick Kyrgios briefly took a knee before a match against Roger Federer.

He later brushed off suggestions that it had any link to N.F.L. protests, and his agent said it was a tribute to Kyrgios’s late grandparents. But others noted that Kyrgios had previously worn an anti-Trump T-shirt and that his agent also represents Mr. Kaepernick.

Other Australian athletes are following the United States debate quietly — like cricketer Peter Siddle, who liked LeBron James’s tweet directed at Mr. Trump, and another showing N.F.L. players taking a knee.

But the story of Peter Norman, and its long-term impact, remains one of the country’s most discussed examples of athletes intersecting with social causes.

After winning the 200-meter silver medal, Norman was approached by the first- and third-place finishers, African-Americans Tommie Smith and John Carlos. The pair asked Norman if he believed in human rights, and told him that they would be staging a protest. “I’ll stand with you,” Norman responded.

The photograph of the three men on the Olympic podium — Smith and Carlos raising fists to the sky; Norman bowing his head solemnly — is one of the lasting sporting images of the 20th century.

Mr. Weinberg, his coach, said “Peter had established a connection with them — they were going through more than many of us could understand at the time.”

The punishment for the two Americans was swift: They were barred from further competition and removed from the Olympic Village.

For Norman, though, the consequences were more insidious. He was made a pariah by Australian media and reprimanded by the head of the Australian Olympic Committee. The A.O.C. did not send him to the 1972 Olympics, effectively ending his athletics career (his silver-medal-winning 200-meter time is still an Australian record). Decades later, he did not receive an invitation to the Sydney 2000 Olympics — his story scrubbed from the country’s sporting history.

When Norman died in 2006, Smith and Carlos flew to Melbourne to be his pallbearers. It was only six years later that Australia’s parliament passed a motion to formally apologize to Norman, and to recognize the “powerful role” his actions played.

“It’s a great Australian story that deserves to be better known,” said Andrew Leigh, the Australian minister who led the motion. “It struck me as what Barack Obama might like to call a ‘teachable moment.’”

Mr. Weinberg, now 90, still ponders how and why Norman was so shunned upon his return to Australia. He cites Norman as an example of how outspoken sporting figures, however towering they may seem, can face a lifetime of negative consequences for their political actions, often from forces they cannot see.

“I think that Peter was badly treated by powers that be, and I’m unable to name them,” Mr. Weinberg said. ”I don’t know who they were.”

As for whether politics has a place in sports, Mr. Weinberg said the question itself is irrelevant. “Nobody can seem to keep it out,” he said.