HOUSTON — Stephen Curry packed light for his most recent business trip.

In a move born of optimism or confidence (or perhaps a mix of both), he chose not to take a suit, dress attire that the N.B.A. requires players to wear if they are injured or inactive and consigned to watch games from the bench. Curry, the luminous star of the Golden State Warriors, was not planning to watch from the bench.

Sure enough, when the Warriors renewed their first-round Western Conference playoff series against the Houston Rockets with Game 3 on Thursday, Curry was nowhere near the bench. Unfortunately for him, he was not on the court, either. He was tucked away in the recesses of Toyota Center, his injured right ankle reducing him to the role of distant spectator for at least another night.

“There was still some healing to be done,” Curry said.

The Rockets took advantage of Curry’s absence, escaping with a narrow win that reduced the Warriors’ series lead to two games to one entering Game 4 on Sunday. Once again, after spending recent days working to graduate to full, pain-free mobility, Curry expects to play — only this time, he has the backing of his coaches and trainers.

“No pain, no limping,” Coach Steve Kerr said after watching Curry scrimmage with teammates at Saturday’s practice. “The conditioning and the rhythm after being off that long, it’s an issue. But we’ll continue to monitor that. Steph doesn’t take too long to get his rhythm back generally, so I think he’ll be fine.”

Curry will be re-evaluated Sunday, Kerr said, but his return would be good news for the Warriors, good news for television viewers and bad news for the Rockets, who stymied their dysfunction just long enough to steal a 97-96 victory against the Curry-less Warriors in Game 3.

It has been a delicate balance for Kerr, who has clearly wanted to treat Curry’s injury with exceeding caution. The Warriors, in all likelihood, do not need Curry to play another minute to win this series. But they do need Curry if they hope to survive three more playoff rounds in their quest for another championship.

Curry has the most famous right ankle in sports, in large part because of its ragged history. His troubles began after his second season as he had surgery on a tendon in May 2011. After a second operation in 2012, his rehabilitation was accompanied by widespread concerns that his ankle could derail his career.

Instead, Curry has been resilient, appearing in at least 78 games in each of the past four regular seasons despite absorbing punishing contact from defenders. By comparison, when Curry sustained his injury in Game 1 against the Rockets — on a simple plant so he could turn to run upcourt — it seemed nondescript except for the hobble that followed.

On Tuesday, a magnetic resonance imaging exam “did not reveal anything of concern,” the Warriors said in a statement, but Curry, who had crammed 24 points into 20 minutes of Game 1, missed Games 2 and 3. He left everyone with the impression that he would have played had it been the finals. He did not sound concerned.

On Friday, Curry participated in a game of three on three against a collection of teammates and the assistant coach Luke Walton. Curry was rusty, a step out of sync. His familiar explosion and rhythm were lacking, he said, not that he was surprised.

“Awful,” he said. “It’s only been five days, but when you miss that much time literally not doing anything, it’s tough.”

Nobody is pitying the Warriors, who have enviable depth and tend to recover from their rare missteps by constructing masterpieces. Not only did they go the entire regular season without losing consecutive games, they rebounded from their nine losses by winning the following game by an average of 14.6 points.

“Our guys are competitive,” Kerr said. “They generally get angry when they lose, and I think that’ll be the feeling come Sunday. Obviously, most teams get angry, but our guys have done a good job of responding with their heads as well as their hearts.”

The Warriors were not exactly crisp without Curry in Game 3. After committing seven of the team’s 14 turnovers and dribbling the ball off his foot in the closing seconds, Draymond Green took responsibility for the loss — an assessment that Kerr described as categorically false. But Kerr appreciated Green’s fire.

“Oh, Draymond will be fine,” Kerr said. “He always takes the blame if he doesn’t play well. I admire that about him.”

Kerr cited precedent in expressing confidence that the Warriors would clean up a lot of their mistakes. And if there has been a benefit to Curry’s two-game absence, consider the early-round playoff experience gained by younger players like Ian Clark, a third-year guard who came off the bench to score 11 points in Game 3.

“I think part of the objective when you play in the regular season is to give guys as much time as you can, up and down the roster, because you never know how things are going to work out,” Kerr said. “Obviously, we didn’t know that Steph would get injured in Game 1. But because he did, Ian’s getting his chance.”

It was a nice opportunity for Clark, an understudy who had prepared for his moment. But the Warriors are still eager for their star to return.

The N.C.A.A. announced a new agreement on Tuesday with CBS Sports and Turner that extended the broadcast rights deal for the Division I men’s basketball tournament another eight years, through 2032, at a rate that will eventually increase to more than $1 billion per year.

While the previous 14-year deal, priced at $10.8 billion (roughly $770 million per year), lasted through 2024, the eight-year extension will add another $8.8 billion. It also commits to keeping the tournament in its current format, in which 68 teams compete through six rounds (plus the four so-called play-in games before the tournament begins in earnest).

The new deal, which will, like its predecessor, provide the N.C.A.A. with a vast majority of its annual revenue, comes at a time when many college athletes and their advocates have sought a greater share of such windfalls than the amateur status of athletes permits. The N.C.A.A. and several of its member conferences have relented somewhat: The dollar amounts of full scholarships have been raised, and the N.C.A.A. recently disbursed $200 million to help colleges cope with rising costs.

In an interview Tuesday, the N.C.A.A. president, Mark Emmert, said that since the contract was critical to the finances of more than a thousand athletic departments across three divisions it made sense to agree early to a contract extension with pre-existing broadcast partners.

“If you think about this one contract, it’s a bit like the endowment of all the universities to support their collegiate athletic programs,” Emmert said. “We only get to buy one stock, and you want it to be one you have a lot of confidence in.”

Emmert frequently takes pains to note that just 3 percent of the athletes under his purview compete in the high-profile sports of Division I men’s basketball and top-tier football, while a vast majority are dependent on the revenue those prominent sports generate.

“We needed to secure a revenue stream throughout what is likely to be an evolving media landscape,” Emmert added. “Some have said, ‘Why didn’t you wait?’ You can second-guess all of this, but for the member universities, this is a really, really important revenue stream.”

For CBS Sports and Turner — which broadcast tournament games on CBS, TBS, TNT and truTV — the deal further locks in one of the most prominent events on the annual sports calendar. Their rival ESPN, which owns the rights to several other N.C.A.A. championships, as well as to many regular-season men’s basketball games, has entrenched itself more deeply in college sports over the last two years with its SEC Network and the College Football Playoff.

The deal includes live-streaming rights and, like the current deal, involves the national championship game alternating between the broadcast network CBS and the cable channel TBS.

While digital and live-streaming viewership rose during the national championship game this year, television viewership fell, which Turner’s president, David Levy, attributed to a comparative lack of compelling story lines.

The championship game earlier this month between North Carolina and Villanova on TBS was well played and exciting, featuring the first buzzer-beater in a title game since 1983. But it attracted 17.8 million television viewers, an audience that was not only sharply lower than those attracted to last year’s championship game on CBS, between Duke and Wisconsin, but also to last year’s national semifinal between star-studded Wisconsin and undefeated Kentucky, also broadcast by TBS.

“The whole tournament itself was down,” Levy said. “But — and this is important — we won nine out of 10 nights of prime time of television. As this business changes and evolves, you want to win nine out of 10 nights.”

Sean McManus, the chairman of CBS Sports, said that the deal — which, he said, is profitable — shored up his network’s 35-year investment in a tent-pole event amid uncertainty over a future of cord-cutting, Internet streaming and other media not yet imagined.

“We don’t know how media’s going to be consumed a month from now, much less in 2032, but the rights will guarantee that, however they’ll be watching it, it will be through Turner and CBS,” McManus said.

Kevin Love scored 40 points, including 34 to set an N.B.A. first-quarter record; LeBron James had his 44th career triple-double; and the Cleveland Cavaliers beat the visiting Portland Trail Blazers, 137-125, on Wednesday night.

Love fell 3 points shy of the league record for points in any quarter, set by Golden State’s Klay Thompson, who scored 37 in the third on Jan. 23, 2015. Love made 11 of 14 field-goal attempts, including 8 of 10 3-point shots, in the first quarter.

James had 31 points, 10 rebounds and 13 assists for his second triple-double of the season. Damian Lillard scored 40 points for Portland, including 25 in the second half. Love missed the only shot he took in the second quarter, scored 6 points in the third and was scoreless again in the fourth. He made 12 of 20 shots over all, including 8 of 12 from 3-point range.

NETS FALL AT HOME Isaiah Thomas scored 23 points, Avery Bradley had 22, and visiting Boston beat the Nets, 111-92. Sean Kilpatrick scored 23 points for the Nets, who have lost five in a row.

The Barcelona star Neymar could be fined more than $10 million after an investment group asserted that the true value of his transfer fee had been concealed, Spanish prosecutors said.

The prosecutors said that the Brazilian investment group D.I.S., which was entitled to 40 percent of the fee for Neymar’s transfer from the Brazilian club Santos in 2013, said that it had been underpaid by about $3.4 million.

The prosecutors also said they would seek a two-year prison sentence for Neymar and his father, who acts as his son’s agent, although in Spain sentences of less than two years for first offenses are usually suspended.

STILL UNBEATEN Atlético Madrid, last season’s Champions League runner-up, is the only team to have won all of its first five group stage matches in the league this season with a 2-0 victory over visiting P.S.V. Eindhoven.

CHAMPIONS LEAGUE Lionel Messi scored twice, and Barcelona won at Celtic, 2-0, to reach the knockout stage of the Champions League for the 13th straight time.  Manchester City advance to the knockout stage with a 1-1 draw against host Borussia Mönchengladbach.  F.C. Rostov defeated visiting Bayern Munich, 3-2, to avenge a five-goal loss and deny Bayern a chance to catch Atlético Madrid in Group D.  Paris St.-Germain drew at Arsenal, 2-2, but still seized control of Group A based on their head-to-head results.

Browns quarterback Robert Griffin III practiced for the first time since breaking a bone in his left shoulder in the season opener.

But Griffin cannot return for games yet. Further tests on his shoulder are ahead and the Browns have 21 days to decide whether to activate him or keep him on injured reserve.

Two women who reported being gang-raped by Baylor football players reached a settlement with the university, which has been criticized over its handling of sexual assault allegations.

The settlement was announced Tuesday night in a joint statement by David Garland, Baylor’s interim president, and the lawyers representing the women. Terms were not disclosed.

The scandal led to the firing of Art Briles, the football coach; the demotion and resignation of the university’s president, Ken Starr; and the resignation of Athletic Director Ian McCaw.

TUTOR CLAIMS FRAUD The University of Missouri has begun investigating claims by a former university tutor who said that she could document at least a dozen cases of serious academic fraud involving male and female athletes.

The tutor wrote on her Facebook account Tuesday that she had taken entrance exams and completed entire courses for Missouri athletes. Hours later, the university announced its investigation.

COLLEGE BASKETBALL Malik Monk scored 23 points as top-ranked Kentucky routed visiting Cleveland State, 101-70, without their leading scorer Isaiah Briscoe.  Josh Hart had 13 points and 11 rebounds, and No. 2 Villanova rolled past visiting College of Charleston, 63-47.  Frank Jackson scored 19 points, and No. 6 Duke beat visiting William & Mary, 88-67.

When Texas officials unveiled a bill Thursday that would require people to use some bathrooms corresponding with their genders at birth, it drew unavoidable comparisons to a similar law passed last year in North Carolina. It also raised the prospect of a new confrontation with college sports officials and professional sports leagues, which pulled several prominent competitions from North Carolina in light of its law and now could face pressure to back away from one of the country’s largest and most sports-mad states.

The North Carolina law, known as House Bill 2 or HB2, curbed anti-discrimination protections for lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender people, leading to protests, boycotts and criticism from business interests in the state.

The Texas bill, which was revealed by Lt. Gov. Dan Patrick at a news conference on Thursday, is known as Senate Bill 6. It would require transgender people to use bathrooms in government buildings and public schools and universities based on their “biological sex,” overruling any contrary local rules. While it faces similar pushback from business groups, the bill has the support of the state’s attorney general.

North Carolina’s law had significant consequences for sports in that state. Its passage prompted the N.B.A. to withdraw this season’s All-Star Game from Charlotte; led the N.C.A.A. to move all of its playoff games in several sports — including first- and second-round games in its most prominent event, the Division I men’s basketball tournament — out of the state; and compelled the Atlantic Coast Conference to relocate several championships, including one in football.

Texas could face similar actions should the bill pass.

Most notably, Houston is set to host the Super Bowl on Feb. 5. It is almost impossible for the N.F.L. to move the sports world’s single biggest annual event, which is planned years in advance and involves millions of dollars in commitments, on such short notice. But the N.F.L. has penalized host cities before.

In 1990, the league voted to hold the 1993 Super Bowl in Arizona, but after state lawmakers refused to make Martin Luther King Jr. Day an official state holiday, the game was moved to the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, Calif. In 1992, Arizona reversed course and recognized the holiday, and the state has hosted several Super Bowls since.

The N.F.L. has already awarded additional Super Bowl hosting rights through 2021; none of those games is scheduled to be played in Texas.

Aside from the Football Championship Subdivision title game, which features James Madison against Youngstown State on Saturday in Frisco, Tex., the N.C.A.A. has a little more time to consider what to do with its events. Those include this season’s women’s basketball Final Four, which is set for early spring in Dallas, and next season’s men’s Final Four, currently scheduled for the Alamodome in San Antonio.

Following the North Carolina controversy, the N.C.A.A. recently began quizzing current and prospective host cities, asking them “to specifically outline how they will protect participants and spectators from discrimination,” including details on how they would mitigate any local discriminatory laws or rules that permit the refusal of services to members of any group. The N.C.A.A. did not comment Thursday.

One of the justifications the N.C.A.A. cited for its decision to remove its championship events from North Carolina was the fact that at least five states — New York, Minnesota, Washington, Vermont and Connecticut — had banned state employees and representatives from some travel to North Carolina.

Like the North Carolina-based A.C.C., which moved some of its championships out of the state, the Texas-based Big 12 is a major conference that could now face similar decisions. The Big 12 is set to stage its first football championship game in several years in December at AT&T Stadium in Arlington, and it holds championships for a variety of other sports in Texas.

“We will track the bill’s progress through the Legislature, and at an appropriate time discuss its impact with our member institutions,” a Big 12 spokesman said Thursday.

LOS ANGELES —  The nature of the spectacle on Sunday afternoon at Staples Center changed drastically about halfway through the second quarter of the game.

Until then, fans in the sellout crowd had seemed content to relish their proximity to the star power of the Golden State Warriors, to bask in the ceremonial nostalgia of Kobe Bryant’s final games in the N.B.A., to sit back and enjoy a sleepy, late-season day game. The outcome seemed like a tertiary concern.

But in the second quarter, they peeked up en masse at the scoreboard, and the Los Angeles Lakers were winning. Four minutes into the quarter, D’Angelo Russell drained two 3-pointers in less than half a minute, giving the Lakers a 7-point advantage and causing the arena to fill with aggressive cheers. The lead grew to 14 shortly before halftime, and the highly improbable felt faintly possible.

The unlikely scenes went on, and the noise and tension grew accordingly.

Golden State kept stumbling, and the Lakers kept up the pressure, until the Warriors spiraled to just their sixth loss of the season, 112-95.

Looking around a roomful of reporters at a postgame news conference, Bryant sensed a momentary letup in questions.

“I’m just as speechless as you are about tonight,” he said with a wide smile.

The tone of the contest before it began suggested a crossover episode of a sitcom: Stephen Curry and Bryant, protagonists in two of the league’s most absorbing serial story lines this season, each congenially cohabiting the other’s universe for a few hours under the theater lights of Staples Center.

It was a farewell tour joining a traveling circus. The result seemed like a forgone conclusion. The Warriors (55-6), who are chasing the 72-win record of the 1995-96 Chicago Bulls, had been trouncing some of the league’s best teams. If they slipped up, it was not going to be against the Lakers (13-51).

The teams had met three previous times this season, and these were Golden State’s winning scores: 111-77, 109-88 and 116-98.

According to the Elias Sports Bureau, it was the first time in N.B.A. history that a team with a winning percentage higher than 90 percent played a team with a winning percentage lower than 20 percent at least 50 games into a season.

But the Warriors, for whatever reason, looked lost. They trailed by 60-49 at halftime and had 11 turnovers after two quarters, compared with the Lakers’ one. They finished the game 4 of 30 from 3-point range.

Curry (18 points) and Klay Thompson (15 points) — long ago nicknamed the Splash Brothers for their long-range prowess — shot a combined 13 for 40 from the field, including a remarkable 1 for 18 from 3-point range.

“It was just one of those days you want to avoid at all costs,” Curry said. “But it happened, and we’ll be all right.”

Steve Kerr, the Warriors’ coach, spent most of the game slumped in his seat, his chin burrowed into his hand as he exhaled deeply. He received a technical in the fourth quarter for arguing with the referees.

After the game, Kerr said his players had been careless and unfocused on offense and had not followed the team’s game plan on defense. He said he was happy for the Lakers, and he kept a sense of humor about his own players.

“This team is filled with millennials, and millennials can’t focus,” said Kerr, who has made the relative youth of his team a running joke this season. “We looked like the millennials tonight.”

Before the stunning result, the game represented a meeting of two of the game’s biggest stars at hugely disparate points of their careers.

Bryant arrived at the arena wearing a charcoal-colored suit, a black shirt and a black tie. Curry stepped off the bus looking like a college student, with ripped jeans, a bomber jacket, headphones and a backpack.

Curry thanked Bryant for all that he had done for the game throughout the years. Bryant encouraged Curry to strive to get better, to achieve more.

Bryant had feasted on Golden State during his long career. He entered the game having made 624 baskets in 66 games against the Warriors in his career, his most against any one opposing team. Bryant played a little more than 24 minutes on Sunday, contributing 12 points while shooting 4 for 14 from the field.

But the Lakers received contributions from all over their young, unaccomplished roster.

Russell had 17 points in the first half and finished with 21. Jordan Clarkson led all scorers with 25. Nick Young drained two 3-pointers within the first three minutes of the fourth quarter, effectively stanching the Warriors’ comeback chances. And Marcelo Huertas, the Lakers’ hirsute backup point guard, levitated for multiple crafty finishes at the rim and doled out no-look passes to his teammates. Huertas finished with 10 points and 9 assists and received a standing ovation when he left the game.

Bryant said he had been drilling “basketball nerdy things” into the heads of his teammates: angles, timing, rhythm. He said the win was not significant, but he added that it would help his young teammates grasp the point of their labor.

“For young guys, I think it’s extremely important to see the results of that,” Bryant said.

The afternoon, then, provided an unlikely treat for the fans. But with less than two minutes remaining, they seemed to remember why they were there, and the arena filled with chants of “Ko-be! Ko-be! Ko-be!” until the final buzzer sounded.

The players walked off the court. The fans lingered in their seats. Everyone appeared a bit dazed.