CHAPEL HILL, N.C. — The N.C.A.A. did not dispute that the University of North Carolina was guilty of running one of the worst academic fraud schemes in college sports history, involving fake classes that enabled dozens of athletes to gain and maintain their eligibility.

But there will be no penalties, the organization said, because no rules were broken.

In a ruling that caused head-scratching everywhere except Chapel Hill, the N.C.A.A. announced on Friday that it could not punish the university or its athletics program because the “paper” classes were not available exclusively to athletes. Other students at North Carolina had access to the fraudulent classes, too.

Noting that distinction, the panel that investigated the case “could not conclude that the University of North Carolina violated N.C.A.A. academic rules,” the N.C.A.A. said in a statement.

The N.C.A.A.’s determination was a major victory for North Carolina after years of wrangling and uncertainty. The athletic department — one of the most high-profile and lucrative ones in the country, and a source of deep pride in the state — could have faced severe penalties, including the loss of championships in men’s basketball, its signature sport.

The N.C.A.A.’s committee on infractions concluded it lacked the power to punish the university under the rules of the N.C.A.A., an association that expects members to govern themselves and establishes a wide berth when it comes to determining what qualifies as academic progress.

“N.C.A.A. policy is clear,” said Greg Sankey, the commissioner of the Southeastern Conference, who led the panel. “The N.C.A.A. defers to its member schools to determine whether academic fraud occurred and, ultimately, the panel is bound to making decisions within the rules set by the membership.”

Carol L. Folt, the university’s chancellor, welcomed the ruling, pointing to the process the university underwent with its accrediting body as well as reforms it instituted internally. “I believe we have done everything possible to correct and move beyond the past academic irregularities and have established very robust processes to prevent them from recurring,” she said.

According to a university-commissioned investigation, North Carolina had for nearly two decades offered a “shadow curriculum” of fake classes into which athletes were steered. It appeared to be a stark subversion of the N.C.A.A.’s central tenet that college athletics are a mere component of education.

The scheme involved nearly 200 laxly administered and graded classes — frequently requiring no attendance and just one paper — over nearly two decades in the African and Afro-American Studies Department. Their students were disproportionately athletes, especially in the lucrative, high-profile sports of football and men’s basketball. They were mostly administered by a staff member named Deborah Crowder. In many cases, athletes were steered to the classes by athletics academic advisers.

The scandal was so serious that the university’s accreditation body briefly placed the university on probation.

In its notice of allegations, which is the N.C.A.A. equivalent of a lawsuit or an indictment, the N.C.A.A.’s enforcement staff pointed to the high enrollment of athletes in the classes — nearly half, according to the university-commissioned investigation led by Kenneth L. Wainstein — and emails in which advisers requested spots for athletes. It charged North Carolina with a “lack of institutional control” resulting in violations of bylaws governing extra benefits to athletes and ethical conduct.

U.N.C. had contended that the case was fundamentally academic in nature, and that athletics staffers were at most tangential to it. The university cited instances in which similar misconduct was alleged at Auburn and Michigan, and the N.C.A.A. did not act.

“The fact that the courses did not meet our expectations,” Mark Merritt, the university’s general counsel, said in a call with reporters, “doesn’t make them fraudulent.”

In a tone that seemed begrudging at times, the panel accepted that reasoning.

“While student-athletes likely benefited from the so-called ‘paper courses’ offered by North Carolina, the information available in the record did not establish that the courses were solely created, offered and maintained as an orchestrated effort to benefit student-athletes,” Sankey said.

Sankey added that his panel was “troubled by the university’s shifting positions about whether academic fraud occurred on its campus,” but he said the infractions committee was powerless to punish North Carolina for courses the university offered to any member of the general student body.

The panel said it had to take North Carolina at its word.

Critics of the N.C.A.A. cited the ruling as another exhibit in their case that the college sports establishment is primarily interested in maintaining the amateur model while keeping revenue flowing, at the expense of athletes’ educations.

“If ever there was a case of academic fraud, North Carolina would have to be the poster child — the longevity and the outrageous behavior to keep athletes eligible through systematic fraud,” said Gerald Gurney, a professor at the University of Oklahoma and past president of the Drake Group, which seeks to reform college athletics. “And it leads one to the absolute conclusion that this finding sanctions academic fraud among our institutions for the purpose of keeping athletes eligible.”

But others believe the N.C.A.A. made the proper decision because the organization is not designed to judge the legitimacy of individual institutions’ academic programs.

“I have never believed that a significant part of the N.C.A.A.’s governance and membership was comfortable with the N.C.A.A. coming in and saying, ‘We are going to determine what is an appropriate academic arrangement for athletes,’ because of the slippery slope it goes down,” said Tyrone P. Thomas, a lawyer at Mintz Levin who advises colleges and universities on N.C.A.A. matters.

“It’s a massive loophole,” he added, “and from the P.R. side it looks horrible — these athletes can do what they do, and it looks horrible. But guess what? Maybe that’s not the N.C.A.A.’s job. This is something the schools have always self-regulated.”

To those who wished the panel had punished North Carolina, the panel itself offered an implicit rejoinder, telling the “membership” — the association is made up of over 1,000 colleges and universities — that if it wished to condemn what happened at North Carolina, it needed to write such rules.

“It is more likely than not that student-athletes received fraudulent credit by the common understanding of what that term means,” the panel said. “It is also more likely than not that U.N.C. personnel used the courses to purposely obtain and maintain student-athletes’ eligibility. These strong possibilities, however, are not the operative or controlling starting points to the membership’s academic fraud analysis.

“What ultimately matters,” it added, “is what U.N.C. says about the courses.”

John Andariese, the white-haired, avuncular Knicks radio and television analyst whose love of basketball earned him the nickname Johnny Hoops, died on Monday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 78.

His wife, Maureen, said the cause was complications of primary progressive aphasia.

“He was all basketball,” Marv Albert, one of Mr. Andariese’s radio and television partners, said in an interview. “He was in very good shape for a long time, and he was always looking for a game. One of his thrills was on game day at Madison Square Garden — he’d play on the court with Garden employees.”

Mr. Andariese (pronounced AN-drays) and Mr. Albert established an easygoing camaraderie nearly from the start of their first season together on the radio, when the Knicks won the 1973 N.B.A. championship.

Mr. Andariese brought to the job a sophisticated knowledge of New York City basketball, which he had nurtured as a player at Fordham University. But he had not been a major college star and, unlike most N.B.A. analysts, did not play or coach in the league.

“I wasn’t a famous player,” he told The Daily News in 2005. “That’s why I came to define the analyst as a giving function. If you don’t give, you are not doing your job.”

He said that he was driven during games to spread his love of the game and explain how talented N.B.A. players were. “That’s what feeds me to this day, that I realize this gift, and I love to share the understanding of that gift with people,” he was quoted as saying by the Knicks’ team historian, Dennis D’Agostino, in an appreciation of Mr. Andariese’s career that was published Tuesday on the website of MSG Network, which televises Knick games.

John Kenneth Andariese was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 19, 1938, to Harold Andariese and the former Mary Ellen Burns. He played basketball at Fordham under Johnny Bach, who became an assistant in the 1980s to Chicago Bulls Coach Phil Jackson, the Knicks’ current president.

Mr. Andariese played on two Fordham teams that went to the N.I.T. He averaged 13.0 points and 8.7 rebounds a game during the 1959-60 season. Mr. Albert jokingly introduced him at dinner events and other appearances as the “53rd leading rebounder in the history of Fordham.”

After graduation, he served stateside in the Army and played professionally for the Allentown Jets of the Eastern Basketball League.

Mr. Andariese was calling college basketball games when he was hired to work with Mr. Albert, starting in the 1972-73 season. Mr. Albert recalled traveling to Los Angeles to call Game 1 of the N.B.A. finals between the Knicks and Lakers: “The first thing we did was to shoot around at Pauley Pavilion,” home to the powerhouse U.C.L.A. basketball team that was coached by John Wooden.

During the game, Mr. Albert added, “John had one of his career highlights” at halftime, when he interviewed the actor Peter Falk. “After that,” he added, “any time we were in L.A. or New York, Falk would come over to us to look at the halftime stat sheet.”

For decades, Mr. Andariese kept his own portable record of the league by meticulously cutting out the box scores of every game and taping them into schoolboy notebooks, some of which he would tote to games as reference.

“I have cases of them,” Maureen Andariese said. “I’d get up at 2 a.m., and he’d be cutting out box scores and highlighting articles.”

In addition to calling Knicks games on radio and television, Mr. Andariese worked for ESPN, Turner Sports and NBA TV.

He retired from calling Knicks games in 2012, as his health problems began to affect his work. Two years later, he received the Curt Gowdy Media Award from the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.

In addition to his wife, the former Maureen Hayden, he is survived by three daughters, Amy McLaughlin, Julie Collins and Emily Wright; four grandchildren; and a sister, Janet Cianci. His first marriage ended in divorce.

For one of his birthdays, Maureen Andariese said, she built him a regulation N.B.A. court on their property in upstate Montgomery, N.Y.

“It had old-fashioned glass backboards, and he had a ball-retrieving thing that kept the balls from going into the cornfield,” she said. “He loved it. His friends would go out and shoot with him.”

DALLAS — Friday’s opening game in the women’s Final Four here will feature two of the most prominent female coaches in college basketball.

Tara VanDerveer has won two national championships at Stanford and coached the American women to a gold medal at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. Dawn Staley, the recently named 2020 Olympic coach, won three gold medals as a player and has guided South Carolina to the national semifinals for the second time in three seasons.

Yet even as VanDerveer and Staley again appear on their sport’s most visible stage, the opportunity for women to coach female collegiate athletes has stagnated after a decades-long decline.

In 1972, when the gender equity law known as Title IX was enacted, women were head coaches of more than 90 percent of women’s college teams across two dozen sports. Now that number has decreased to about 40 percent.

“I want to think sexism is too simple of an answer, but what is it if it’s not that?” said VanDerveer, the only woman besides Pat Summitt to have won 1,000 career games in Division I. “Anytime someone hires a male coach and says, ‘Coaching is coaching,’ well, why aren’t more women in men’s basketball?”

The most successful coach in women’s college basketball is Geno Auriemma of Connecticut, which has won 111 consecutive games and is seeking its fifth consecutive national title — and 12th over all. In the second semifinal of the N.C.A.A. tournament on Friday, UConn will face Mississippi State, also coached by a man, Vic Schaefer.

Earlier in his career, Auriemma said he felt some antipathy toward his success because he was a man, but no longer.

“I would like to think I’ve done too much for the growth of the game for people to resent the fact that I’m a man,” he said.

Several high-profile female coaches agreed, saying that they respect what Auriemma has achieved and that he hires women as his assistant coaches.

“Coaches don’t really specifically talk about Geno,” Staley said. “They probably more talk about dethroning him.”

On Thursday, Auriemma said fewer women wanted to coach because they had far more career opportunities beyond teaching, and basketball, than they did when Title IX was enacted.

“It’s quite simple,” he said.

But that characterization would be vigorously disputed by a number of female coaches.

“Basketball is not a gender,” Staley said.

She added: “I do think that women should be given the opportunity to coach women. I think a lot of times, maybe administrators are going through the process of hiring somebody with the mind-set of a male. When you go into that mind-set, you don’t give women an opportunity to be heard.”

“Where are the women?” the N.C.A.A. asked in an exhaustive examination of the issue this winter by Rachel Stark in the organization’s Champion magazine.

The answers Stark found were numerous and complicated: As more money and higher salaries came into college sports, men became increasingly interested in coaching women’s teams. (In October, Auriemma signed a five-year contract extension that will pay him at least $13 million).

The same opportunity did not run in the other direction. Only about 3 percent of men’s teams are coached by women. Meanwhile, 80 percent of college athletic directors are men.

From conversations with female coaches, Stark found other factors leading to their stagnating numbers: “The increasing demands of the job. The strain on working mothers. Fear and discrimination among lesbian coaches. Lack of mentors. Lack of networking opportunities. Perceived gender biases.”

Muffet McGraw, the longtime women’s coach at Notre Dame who won the 2001 N.C.A.A. championship and is a member of the board of the Women’s Basketball Coaches Association, said in a telephone interview: “We seem to lose women, and so we’re looking to see: Is it because of a lack of a work-life balance? It’s a demanding profession for men and women, but a lot of women have other responsibilities at home.”

The number of female head coaches varies widely, depending on the sport, at 86 universities at the highest level of Division I competition, according to a study conducted by the University of Minnesota’s Tucker Center for Research on Girls and Women in Sport.

Field hockey, lacrosse, golf, equestrian and softball received a grade of A from the research center in 2016-17 for the percentage of female head coaches of women’s teams in the American Athletic Conference, the Atlantic Coast Conference, the Big 12, the Big East, the Big Ten, the Pacific-12 and the Southeastern Conferences.

Women’s basketball received a B, with 53 of 86 head coaches being women in those leagues. But the percentage of female coaches dipped to 61.6 percent from 64 percent in 2015-16. Of the eight head coaches hired in 2016-17, two were men who replaced women.

Among the women’s Final Four programs, Stanford and South Carolina were given a C for their hiring of women as head coaches, and UConn and Mississippi State were given a D by the Tucker Center.

“My biggest concern is that young women are not often getting the opportunity to have a female coaching role model,” said Nicole M. LaVoi, the co-director of the Tucker Center. “That’s detrimental to development.”

When McGraw last had an opening for an assistant coach at Notre Dame, she said, the proportion of male applicants compared with women was about 70 percent to 30 percent.

Women may be more reluctant to switch from one college to another than men, McGraw said.

“I don’t think it’s generally about the money and business part of it, so much as they like the quality of life where they are,” she said. “The work-life balance, I think, is a bigger issue for women than it is for men.”

It is also clear that some women have been dissuaded from pursuing coaching careers.

Kara Lawson, who played for Summitt at Tennessee from 1999 to 2003, was early into her W.N.B.A. and broadcasting careers in Sacramento when she asked to attend a practice of the Sacramento Kings of the N.B.A. The Kings declined, she said, saying she might “distract” the players and offering only to let her watch the workout through a one-way mirror.

“I look back on that and I’m like, is my life totally different” than it might have been?” said Lawson, now an ESPN commentator. “I wanted to be a coach.”

The Women’s Basketball Coaches Association has been trying to change the narrative. Sixty-one graduating female players have been invited to its convention this week in Dallas. They are participating in a workshop, So You Want to Be a Coach, that is intended to raise their awareness and spur their interest.

This season, Staley found an innovative way to add another female assistant coach at South Carolina. She hired Melanie Balcomb, who had been the head coach for 14 seasons at Vanderbilt, to be in charge of analytics, a groundbreaking role for women’s college basketball.

An appealing feature of the job for Balcomb, who has two young children, was that she did not have to travel or recruit during the season. But there was another important reason to choose South Carolina, she said Thursday. Balcomb and her female partner, who are both white, adopted African-American children.

For these reasons, she said, “we haven’t been welcomed everywhere, and Dawn welcomed me and my family. It’s been an unbelievable experience.”

Homophobia, Balcomb added, “is the white elephant in the room that doesn’t get talked about.”

Anucha Browne, the N.C.A.A.’s vice president for women’s basketball championships, said it was vital for both male and female coaches and administrators to give women more coaching opportunities.

“It’s critical that we need to do something to stem the decline of women in the coaching profession,” Browne said.