On the inaugural game day, Penny Toler drove into an arena parking lot transformed into a carnival of child-friendly slides and noisy roller coasters to behold what for her was the most distinctive sight for a historic occasion.

It was the decorative surprise that Johnny Buss, of the family that owns the Los Angeles Lakers, had furtively told her was coming. Giant posters of Toler and four teammates were draped along the exterior of the Great Western Forum, welcoming Toler to the Los Angeles Sparks, to the W.N.B.A. and to a game in her home country after eight transient years in which she had played professionally in Italy and Israel.

“I had tears in my eyes,” Toler said.

It was June 21, 1997. The Sparks, led by Toler and Lisa Leslie, hosted the New York Liberty, launching the N.B.A.’s summer annex — Commissioner David Stern’s gift to the growing women’s sports movement and a calculated attempt to market the game as a year-round production — in front of 14,284 fans and a national television audience on NBC.

As the W.N.B.A. begins its 20th season on Saturday, and notwithstanding the continuing challenges in sustaining the league, Toler and several others involved in the much-hyped start-up could look back and acknowledge to their relief that its survival did not depend on the quality of its debut.

“An ugly game,” said Rebecca Lobo, the former Connecticut star, who was placed with the Liberty as part of the league’s strategy of allocating two regionally designated core players per team.

For the record, the Sparks and the Liberty combined to make 47 of 128 shots, or slightly less than 37 percent. They committed an unsightly 54 turnovers.

On top of that, Leslie, the 6-foot-5 marquee player and Wilhelmina model, found herself with an unobstructed opportunity to “throw one down” and athletically validate the N.B.A. Entertainment-inspired league marketing slogan, “We Got Next.”

While contemplating the value of a league-launching dunk — and, by her own admission, not in ideal game shape to begin with — Leslie failed to achieve maximum liftoff. She slammed the ball into the rim.

“We all knew Lisa could dunk,” Toler said. “But in that first game, there was so much excitement, so much tension, I’m not sure any of us were ourselves.”

Two decades ago, the women’s game — while chock-full of talented, deserving but mostly little-known players who made their living in Europe and Asia — was not qualitatively what it has become in the wide-ranging era of Diana Taurasi, Maya Moore, Elena Delle Donne and this year’s answer to who’s got next, the N.C.A.A.-decorated Connecticut star, Breanna Stewart.

Toler, a point guard who scored the league’s first basket 59 seconds into what became a 67-57 Liberty victory, is a bridge to the past. Now the Sparks’ general manager, she is 50, a proud pioneer and none too shy about sharing with her players what they ought to be doing for the good of their game.

“These kids nowadays, they really can’t remember a time when there wasn’t a league,” she said in a recent telephone interview. “They have to be reminded of the sacrifices that were made, the things we had to do to keep our careers going.”

Toler added: “But as much as it’s been 20 years now, and the young players may take it for granted, I still feel that we were the lucky ones that had the wild ride.”

The emotional roller coaster, she meant — all the way home.

After the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta — a gold-medal showcase for a United States women’s team that for the first time trained and toured as the men did, with its players paid $50,000 plus expenses — the W.N.B.A. began in earnest the preparations for its debut.

Val Ackerman, the league’s first president, signed three showcase players — Leslie, Lobo and the gifted Sheryl Swoopes — to serve as the promotional faces via the N.B.A.’s marketing machine.

Then there was the challenge of filling eight rosters at a time when a rival league, the A.B.L., was planning an earlier start across the conventional 1996-97 basketball season.

The top W.N.B.A. salary was $50,000, with bonus incentives for certain players.

“The A.B.L. was paying more but for a longer season, and you couldn’t play for anyone else,” Ackerman said. “Our players could continue to play abroad, and obviously, they still do.”

To move beyond Leslie, Lobo and Swoopes, Ackerman hired Renee Brown, a longtime college assistant coach and director of player personnel for Coach Tara Vanderveer’s Atlanta Olympics team.

Brown worked with Kim Bohuny, who, as part of the N.B.A.’s international team, had contacts in basketball federations worldwide. Having been in Atlanta for the Olympics, Brown knew of each country’s best player — like Elena Baranova of Russia, Michelle Timms of Australia and Janeth Arcain of Brazil.

“We wanted to make it a global company from the beginning,” said Brown, who is still with the W.N.B.A. as chief of basketball operations and player relations. “We went after players everywhere.”

Three years before Yao Ming introduced himself to the world at the 2000 Sydney Games, and five years before Yao became the N.B.A.’s No. 1 draft pick and joined the Houston Rockets, Brown persuaded Chinese officials to send over another giant, Zheng Haixia.

At a bulky 6-8, Zheng, 30, wound up in Los Angeles playing alongside the slender Leslie, speaking little English, charming teammates with a universal basketball body language and resting her elbow on their heads during timeouts.

The Sparks also featured the raw but explosive guard Mwadi Mabika from Zaire, which in 1997 was renamed the Democratic Republic of the Congo after a civil war.

Mabika had been impressive at the 1996 Olympics despite Zaire’s losing all seven of its games. There was one problem in her recruitment.

“The country was in chaos; the airport was closed,” Brown said.

Dikembe Mutombo, then of the Atlanta Hawks, helped reach contacts in Zaire, his native country. Mabika found her way to Atlanta. Mutombo brought her to Los Angeles for a tryout. Mabika became an All-Star and a member of two championship teams.

The Sparks’ assigned players were Leslie and Toler. The charismatic point guard Teresa Weatherspoon joined Lobo in New York.

Brown hit the European trail for a second phase of roster building, finding pros for an elite draft before the selection of college players.

She flew to Milan and made a stop in nearby Pavia, where Kym Hampton, a 6-2 frontcourt veteran, was toiling after tours in Spain, France and Japan.

“I was 35, turning 36,” Hampton said. “I always figured there would be pro ball for women, eventually. I just didn’t think I’d still be playing when it happened.”

She had been approached by the A.B.L., which offered six figures, but her agent told her not to sign, predicting that the league would not last; it folded after two seasons. Brown watched Hampton have a 25-point night against one of Italy’s better clubs and then followed her to a nightclub, where Hampton, a talented singer of mostly rhythm and blues, had a gig.

Brown was selling the N.B.A. imprimatur, and Hampton was eventually drafted fourth by the Liberty.

With NBC, ESPN and Lifetime lined up as television partners, with many sponsors leaned on by Stern aboard, with logos created and a two-tone ball selected, the league was taking shape. Then Ackerman received a call from Brown one night in early 1997.

“Sitting down?” Brown said.

“What is it?” Ackerman said.

“Sheryl Swoopes is pregnant.”

Ackerman sighed, then said, “That’s wonderful.”

Welcome to women’s professional sports. Swoopes, assigned to the Houston Comets, would miss several weeks of a 10-week season, though she remained in the promotional campaign, her pregnancy camouflaged, and returned to help the Comets win the league’s first title.

For a logical league opener, that left Leslie against Lobo, Sparks versus Liberty. Except that Lobo, well-known from Connecticut’s first unbeaten national championship team in 1995, had been, at 22, the youngest Olympian in Atlanta, averaging fewer than 4 points a game.

Leslie had barely touched a ball after the Olympics until she reported to the Sparks for a three-week training camp.

“When they first came to me, I was thinking I might already be retired, doing the modeling thing, and this would be a nice opportunity to play a few summer league games, maybe wear reversible jerseys,” she said. “I didn’t get the magnitude of what they were planning.”

As the game approached, “We Got Next” commercials aired frequently during televised N.B.A. playoff games. Billboards appeared in Manhattan and Los Angeles, featuring Leslie and Lobo. When the Liberty bus rolled out of the airport a few days before the game, Lobo was excited and a bit sheepish when she spotted the images of her and Leslie looming over the traffic.

“In New York, we had trained at the Reebok Club, and you had people like Jerry Seinfeld walking in and out,” Lobo said. “N.B.A. players were used to that. For us, it was a whole new world.”

Weatherspoon recalled “a lot of giddiness” as the Liberty practiced in Los Angeles and made the news media rounds. “Until we got on the bus to the arena for the game,” she said. “Now nobody’s talking. Headphones on. It finally hit us that, as the first, everyone would be watching, judging.”

Hampton walked into the visitors’ locker room at the Forum and took the opportunity to “go move my butt around every one” of the dressing stalls.

“The greatest players had all sat in those places, Cousy to Jordan,” she said. “I was so overcome with emotion, felt so blessed.”

A little ornery, too. When Liberty Coach Nancy Darsch told the 6-4 Lobo that she would be matched with Leslie on both ends of the floor, the maternal enforcer in Hampton emerged.

She asked Darsch if she could guard Leslie to allow Lobo to focus on offense. Hampton knew Leslie well, her tricks of the trade.

“She’d elbow you here, elbow you there,” she said.

“You’re giving away too much size,” Darsch said.

“What, two, three inches?” Hampton said.

Hampton, a physical player, recalled: “Lisa didn’t score her first point until I took a rest.”

Leslie did notch 16 for the game — same as Lobo — on 6-for-17 shooting, the dunk attempt her most memorable miss.

“I was proud to see her go for it,” Weatherspoon said. “I was happy to see her miss it.”

Leslie would not become the league’s first in-game dunker until July 2002. She wound up playing for 11 seasons, with one regret.

“If I could do anything over, I would have trained for that first game, that first season,” she said. “I guess I figured 50 percent of me was good enough.”

She recalled “endless interviews” leading up to, and even on the morning of, the game. By tipoff, she said, her legs felt like Jell-O. Having her friend Magic Johnson at courtside added to the tension.

Before Leslie and Hampton participated with Ackerman in a ceremonial jump ball, the national anthem was performed — by a recording. Jeffrey Osborne was supposed to have sung it, but, according to Ackerman, he was caught in traffic.

Nobody thought to ask Hampton, who did not volunteer.

“I had never performed in a place that big,” she said. “I probably would have passed out.”

Instead, Hampton leaned on Leslie, who became more fatigued because a fairly immobile Zheng was unable to deal with the pace of the new pro game and transition back on defense. That left Leslie alone to defend against Lobo and Hampton, who scored 13 points, among other penetrators.

“I’d be yelling, ‘Get her out, she can’t keep up,’ ” Leslie said of Zheng, whom she otherwise adored.

Zheng, she added, fortunately could not understand her.

For those who played or participated in that first game, the result 20 years later has become irrelevant. Game details are a blur. It was all about being there, even for the lead official, Violet Palmer, who already knew she was being considered, along with Dee Kantner, to cross the gender barrier into the N.B.A. for the following season.

“The timing was so perfect for me,” Palmer said. “I was so proud to be on the court with all those women who had to play in other countries for so long.”

Ackerman said it was a bonding experience that never seems to have ended. As commissioner of the Big East Conference, she was in Raleigh, N.C., during the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament in March, when someone called out, “Val, Val!”

She spun around to find Jordan Jackson, Sheryl Swoopes’s son, breaking from his warm-up for Texas Tech. They embraced, and she told him, “It’s been 20 years — I still remember getting that call.”

Where will the W.N.B.A. be in another 20 years? That is a more difficult call, or prognostication.

Toler said, “I know it will be here at 40.”

Echoing her, Hampton said she agreed that while today’s players feel entitled to a United States-based league and make more money — though not that much more, which is why many still play and fare much better abroad — “That first year, we were like rock stars.”

The novelty subsided, predictably, and the W.N.B.A.’s future and fate lie, Hampton said, in an ever-expanding grass-roots world.

“I have an 11-year-old daughter who plays A.A.U. ball,” she said. “Many of the parents don’t bring their kids to W.N.B.A. games, and I just don’t understand why they’re not into the business of it all.

“I go to camps, and I could ask a girl, ‘Name three players on the Liberty,’ and much of the time they could not.”

She sighed and added: “I just want people to get it. That’s what that first game — and these last 20 years — have been all about.”

ARLINGTON, Tex. — The three women in the second row at College Park Center were strangers before tipoff, united only by their passion for women’s basketball. But as the Dallas Wings played a home preseason game here earlier this month, they gradually bonded into a boisterous cheerleading unit — shouting, shimmying and shaking their fists to support the Wings.

The team is starting its first season in its third city.

“We need to promote these women!” said Terry Spivey, of Glenn Heights, a Dallas suburb.

From its start in 1997, the Women’s National Basketball Association has had enthusiastic fans looking for good basketball and seeing in the league affirmation of the goal of sports equality.

But as its 20th season gets underway, the W.N.B.A.’s modest attendance and television viewership (just below 200,000 on ESPN’s networks last season) illuminate a stubborn imbalance between men’s and women’s professional leagues, adding to the expanding debate about the place of women’s sports in society.

These anxieties have increased more than 40 years after the federal law known as Title IX opened the way for millions of girls to play sports. The women’s professional leagues they move on to are still struggling to develop and hold lasting public interest.

The Women’s World Cup, the play of Serena and Venus Williams on the tennis circuit, and some professional women’s golf events do generate a broad following. But those tend to be exceptions. There has yet to be a financially viable women’s mainstream sports league in the United States.

Building and sustaining a league, a challenge across sports and genders, has proved especially nettlesome for the W.N.B.A., even though it has the significant advantage of backing from one of the most financially endowed leagues, the National Basketball Association. Some wonder if, without that subsidy, the W.N.B.A. would have gone the way of other women’s leagues with noble aspirations but little support to keep them alive.

Half of the W.N.B.A.’s 12 teams lose money, and they benefit from revenue generated by the N.B.A.’s national television and sponsorship deals. This season, the $25 million the W.N.B.A. is getting from its primary broadcaster, ESPN, is a tiny fraction of the N.B.A.’s average $930 million payment from ESPN and TNT, which will rise to about $2.6 billion next season.

In a rare and candid moment last year, James L. Dolan, who owns the W.N.B.A.’s Liberty and the N.B.A.’s Knicks, told HBO’s “Real Sports” that he came close to handing the franchise back to the league in 2015.

“It hasn’t made money,” he said. “Its prospects of making money, at that time and even today, are still slim.”

Dolan has held on to the Liberty, though, and there seems to be little doubt of the N.B.A.’s continued support of the W.N.B.A. as a legacy investment in women’s basketball.

But the W.N.B.A. has a fundamental problem: It needs more fans — lots of them. Attendance fell to an average of 7,318 a game last season, almost two decades after reaching its peak of 10,864 in 1998, the league’s second season.

Mary Jo Kane, the director of the Tucker Center for Research on Girls & Women in Sport at the University of Minnesota, said women’s leagues still take a back seat in the sports world, despite the stated interest of fans, but she saw some hopeful signs.

“If the baseline for comparison is where women’s sports were in the early stage of Title IX, the W.N.B.A.’s cup runneth over,” she said. Still, she added: “While there is no back-room conspiracy to suppress interest in women’s sports, women’s sports are still an afterthought and not considered core to the brand of sports. But having said that, at least they’re in the conversation.”

The W.N.B.A.’s inability to fully capitalize on its early successes has been acknowledged by one of its founders, Adam Silver, now the N.B.A. commissioner. He said last fall that the league had not progressed as far as it should have — and that he had not focused on it as much as possible.

“As much as we’ve done in lending the league our name,” he said, “the people who have been in the sports business for a long time, and I’m one of them, historically underestimated the marketing it takes to launch a new property.”

The need to market the league — as the best women’s basketball in the world with deeper talent than ever — is recognized by players.

Sue Bird, the Seattle Storm guard who is playing in her 14th season, said, “There’s a weird disconnect between college players and W.N.B.A. players in terms of how people view us.”

It is as if fans needed to be reminded, she said, that “we’re actually the same players.”

Before the season, the league hired a new president, Lisa M. Borders, to replace Laurel J. Richie. Silver likens the task of managing the league to running a political campaign — something that Borders has done, when she was on the Atlanta City Council and ran unsuccessfully for mayor. More recently, Borders chaired the Coca-Cola Foundation.

She is trying to augment increased television coverage with a vigorous digital and social media marketing plan in an effort to lift attendance and viewership.

She is fond of adages, like one from her grandfather, who told her, “You’ve got two ears and one mouth, so listen twice as much as you talk.” She talks about the Harry Truman-like whistle-stop tour that will take her to each market during the season. And she promised to bring a businesslike approach to reversing the league’s troubles.

“Here’s my job,” she said emphatically. “I am the No. 1 salesperson in the W.N.B.A. My title says president, but economic viability is my No. 1 job.”

Borders recognizes the challenges in making the W.N.B.A. stand out to hard-core women’s basketball fans as well as more casual sports lovers who might not pay attention to women’s sports.

“People have to know there’s a team in their market,” she said during a recent interview in her office at N.B.A. headquarters in Manhattan. “They have to know it’s affordable family entertainment. There is no reason why people shouldn’t know that a W.N.B.A. game is being played.”

The 2016 season is a reboot, an opportunity to watch the rookie season of Breanna Stewart, one of the league’s biggest new stars who was drafted by the Storm after leading the University of Connecticut to four consecutive N.C.A.A. titles; and to celebrate the final campaign of one of the league’s most popular players, Tamika Catchings of the Indiana Fever.

It is also a season to follow the Dallas Wings, a franchise with three W.N.B.A. titles and as many relocations to build an audience — exemplifying the ups and downs of the league.

The W.N.B.A. strives to keep the failure of other leagues from haunting it. Two women’s soccer leagues succumbed after three seasons; one of them, the Women’s United Soccer Association, which was launched in the afterglow of the United States’s victory at the 1999 Women’s World Cup, had a group of cable television companies and executives as its backers.

“I’m optimistic, but I’m not naïve,” said Michael Alter, the owner of the Chicago Sky. “It’s not easy to get the word out. We don’t have the support of all the free media; we have to work really hard. It’s a grind, and we’re just plugging away. But we’ve got great athletes, and we’re doing everything possible to expose them to the media.”

To combat criticism that the league has not come as far as it should have, executives often repeat a mantra: The W.N.B.A. is ahead of the N.B.A. at a similar period in its development.

Last year’s average W.N.B.A. attendance of 7,318 a game exceeded the 6,749 at the same period of the N.B.A.’s development in the mid-1960s. The N.B.A. then was not the marketing juggernaut it would later become under the former commissioner David Stern and lacked a nurturing, financially well-heeled league as its parent, as the W.N.B.A. has had.

The comparison between the leagues is less favorable now: The N.B.A. is a global sports force, with $5.18 billion in revenue last year, that just set a regular-season attendance record of 17,864 a game.

Still, Val Ackerman, the first W.N.B.A. president, said: “Longevity is itself a victory. There were naysayers around every corner who said we wouldn’t last a year or even two years, and now it’s 20.”

Backed by the “We Got Next” marketing campaign and the ownership of its teams by N.B.A. franchises, the W.N.B.A. started with unexpected strength the year after the United States women’s team won the gold medal at the 1996 Summer Olympics. Original average attendance projections of upward of 4,500 fans in the first season were obliterated in the surprising rush to see the women play. That average attendance of 9,664 in 1997 swelled to a peak of 10,864 in 1998, then began its gradual downward descent.

“The first year or two, sure, there was a lot of sampling and a lot of excitement coming out of the Olympics,” said Rick Welts, president of the N.B.A.’s Golden State Warriors. “The league did a great job launching, but a whole lot of N.B.A. fans looked, watched and said, ‘I don’t like this league that much.’ That was the biggest wake-up call of all, that there was not an automatic migration of N.B.A. fans to the W.N.B.A. It took us a while to figure out that this was not the N.B.A. and we had to approach it differently.”

Silver said his goal within three to five years was to bring attendance back to 10,000, a level the Phoenix Mercury, the Minnesota Lynx and the Liberty approached last year.

That may help shore up finances that contribute to the W.N.B.A.’s low player salaries, from $39,676 to $111,500 this season, that push many of its players, like Maya Moore, Diana Taurasi, Brittney Griner and Tina Charles, to play in Europe and China during the off-season for multiples of their league wages.

“Hopefully, in five years, players won’t have to go overseas, and we’ll have the off-season to make ourselves and the W.N.B.A. better,” said the Sky’s Cappie Pondexter, who has played in a Turkish league between seasons.

Often, it seems, the league is striving for respect even in supportive quarters.

In January, ESPN and league officials met to discuss plans for the upcoming season and narrowly avoided what could have been a major slight. The league’s original 2016 television schedule omitted an opening-night game, an oversight John Skipper, the ESPN president, said he rectified.

Skipper said: “I asked what day the season opened and what game we were doing, and I was told we weren’t doing a game. And I said: ‘Guys, that’s an issue. We can’t be the league’s partner and not to do an opening-day game.’”

Silver was relieved at Skipper’s intervention.

“I had accepted that we’d gotten all we could out of ESPN and was thrilled when John added the opening-day game,” Silver said. “It was a reminder of how much more we need to do.”

The opening game ended up being the Lynx’s 95-76 victory over the Mercury with a paid attendance of 9,221 fans at Target Center — which sells only lower-bowl seats for most Lynx games — on an opening weekend when league attendance was up 7 percent over last season.

The Wings hope they have made their final move and that it will generate attendance. Starting out in 1998 as the Detroit Shock, the team moved to Tulsa, Okla., in 2010 and then relocated to the Dallas-Fort Worth area after last season.

Bill Cameron, the franchise owner, thought that taking the team to Tulsa, where it would be the city’s only major franchise, would be as beneficial as it was for the Seattle SuperSonics when they moved to Oklahoma City, where they became the Thunder.

But he was wrong. The franchise, which won three titles in Detroit, foundered in Tulsa. Three key players did not join the relocation. The team won as few as three games during five consecutive losing seasons. Last season’s team was hurt by injuries to its stars, Skylar Diggins and Odyssey Sims, but still won 18 of 34 games.

“As we looked ahead, the protracted downturn in the energy economy in Tulsa was worrisome,” Cameron said, but the Dallas area beckoned.

“When the opportunity came to move to Dallas, we needed to pursue it,” Cameron said. “In a short time, we’ve almost reached the same level of ticket sales and sponsorship we had in Tulsa after five years.”

In moving to the campus of the University of Texas at Arlington, Cameron took the team from BOK Center in Tulsa, with 17,800 seats for basketball, to College Park Center, with 7,000 seats.

To Sims, it is the right size for a W.N.B.A. team.

“Obviously, we’re not going to fill up 20,000,” she said at the team’s media day. “No W.N.B.A. team has done that. They should just make arenas smaller. Even if you only have 3,000 fans on a bad night, it’ll sound loud.”

The small Arlington arena needed most of the first half of a preseason game between the Wings and the Connecticut Sun before the crowd appeared to reach its paid attendance of 2,326. The first regular-season home game, a victory over the San Antonio Stars in a sellout arena, was a better early indicator of local interest in the relocated team that will try to break through in a crowded market. The region features the National Football League’s Dallas Cowboys and Major League Baseball’s Texas Rangers, who play nearby, as well as the N.B.A.’s Dallas Mavericks and the National Hockey League’s Dallas Stars.

For more than a quarter, even as the Wings took a big lead, fans were quiet, many with arms folded, as if sending a message to the players: Show me. The recorded exhortations to shout “Defense!” were not being followed. Slowly, the fans came alive. They started razzing Sun players at the free-throw line. A white-haired man jawed at the visiting team.

And Tiesha Bailey, who watched the game in a state of exuberance near Spivey, said: “I was 11 when the W.N.B.A. started. I remember being so excited that Sheryl Swoopes was in Houston. Now I have season tickets, so I can take my 9-year-old niece here.”

The Houston Comets were the league’s early powerhouse, winning the first four W.N.B.A. championships and attracting as many as 12,602 fans a game in 1998. But by 2008, they were out of business, victimized by their owner’s lack of finances.

“I only wanted to risk myself so far,” the owner, Hilton Koch, said at the time. “My money was only going to last so long.”

Barbara Miggins stayed on her feet through nearly all of the Wings’ preseason game, gesturing with her right arm while cradling her 17-month-old daughter, Gina, in her left. Her older daughters, Chrissy, 4, and Lina, 5, and her husband, Reggie, sat nearby.

“I’ve been waiting 17 years for this,” she said after the Wings’ loss to the Sun. “This is a role-modeling experience for our daughters. I want them to see this.”

On the day LeBron James was having his victory parade in Cleveland, Ben Simmons spoke with me in a Manhattan hotel about anticipating his championship moment. That moment came at the N.B.A. draft a day later when Simmons, a 19-year-old who is coming off a single season at Louisiana State, was selected No. 1 by the Philadelphia 76ers.

“It’s kind of surreal right now,” Simmons said. “It probably won’t hit me until I’m in the city, I’m actually part of the organization.”

On Thursday night, it hit him. “It honestly feels like all the pressure just has hopped off me,” Simmons said. “Now I can relax. I know where I’m going to be. I know where I’m headed.”

Simmons epitomizes the rare gem produced on the supply side of the basketball industry. At 6 feet 10 inches, he is a versatile player at home anywhere on the floor.

Born and raised in Melbourne, Australia, Simmons pushed his parents to send him to the United States after looking at YouTube clips, studying rankings and looking at his high school competition.

“Part of it was him saying, ‘I’m ready,’” his father, David, recalled.

In 2013, Simmons moved to Florida and enrolled at Montverde Academy, which he led to three straight high school national championships.

During the recruiting process, Simmons rejected the idea that a top player should naturally attend one of the most successful big-time programs. He said no to Kentucky and no to Duke. Instead he went to L.S.U., where his godfather, David Patrick, was the associate head coach. Patrick is now an assistant at Texas Christian.

“The point for me was going to a school that didn’t have a rich basketball history like a Kentucky or a Duke,” Simmons said. “I knew it was going to be hard. I like a challenge. I accepted that.”

L.S.U. severely underachieved. There were injuries and problems with team chemistry issues. The Tigers did not make the N.C.A.A. tournament and elected not to participate in the National Invitation Tournament.

“It was tough, because I’ve never been on a losing team,” Simmons said.

But having ended up on one — and having shouldered the blame for the team’s failures — will help Simmons in his transition to the N.B.A. if he does not get off to a flying start.

“The experience at L.S.U. helped me understand that things are not always going to be perfect,” he said. “I was getting all of that thrown on me, but I had to deal with it, and it came with the territory.”

Simmons signed last March with Klutch Sports. The agency’s highest-profile client is James, the top draft pick at 18 years old in 2003, who Simmons says has become a friend and a mentor. They talk frequently, discussing topics like footwork and how Simmons’s life is about to dramatically change.

“I’ve learned a lot just being around LeBron,” Simmons said. “People say things about him all the time, but he would never say anything back. That’s what I learned from him: Don’t retaliate to articles or pieces or to things that are said about me.”

Simmons is the subject of a documentary, “One and Done,” scheduled to appear on Showtime in October. The film explores Simmons’s journey from Australia to Florida to L.S.U. to the N.B.A. It illustrates the global system that delivers players to college programs in the United States.

“I think it’s great because you’re watching somebody go from high school to the N.B.A., and you see what’s actually happening,” Simmons said. “I want people to understand it’s not all about the money, cars and things like that. A lot of different things go into this.”

The underlying question the film examines is whether the most talented high school athletes should be forced to spend a “sham year” in college or play professionally outside the United States rather than having the opportunity to go straight to the N.B.A.

“I look at the N.B.A. as a job, a great job to have, so I think for me, I would have loved the opportunity to go to the N.B.A. out of high school,” Simmons said. “If you’re not ready, you’re not ready. If you are ready, I think you should be able top to go.”

He added: “I enjoyed my time at L.S.U. I wouldn’t change it for anything. My dad went to college — my sisters, brothers — so I felt like I just had to, and I enjoyed it.”

Simmons is the youngest of six children. His father, David, was born and raised in the South Bronx; his mother, Julie, is from Australia.

David Simmons played college basketball at Oklahoma City University and spent his professional career in South America and finally in Australia, where he met and married Julie.

“I never would have imagined any of this,” David Simmons said. “There was no plan for this. All of our kids were treated the same. They were all coached the same way. Ben just happened to be the kid who turned out to be 6-10 with the same skills they all had.”

Because of his high profile, his extraordinary skills and the desperation of the team that makes him their first selection, Simmons may have a shorter-than-usual honeymoon.

In the era of social media, anyone can text a good game. Anyone can Facebook or Snapchat a good game. But at some point, you have to play a good game — especially if you are a high-profile rookie in championship-starved Philadelphia.

“I’ll have time to mature and develop, and one day, hopefully, I can bring a ring to wherever I am,” Simmons said.

He smiled. “LeBron did it,” Simmons said.

I reminded him that James had left Cleveland, then returned.

“I think it had to happen,” Simmons said. “It helped him mature his game, understand how to be a better player, teammate and leader. He came back to Cleveland knowing how to win a championship.”

Impressive insight from a 19-year-old who will have to remind a forlorn franchise what winning looks like.

Phil Jackson’s description of LeBron James’s business partners as his “posse” in an interview published by ESPN on Monday drew an angry response from James, who took offense at the racial connotation of the word.

The dispute between Jackson, the Knicks’ president, and James, who plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers and is one of the N.B.A.’s most visible players, also left Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony in the uncomfortable position of having to answer questions about a sudden feud involving one of his bosses and one of his good friends.

The ESPN interview was a wide-ranging Q. and A. in which Jackson talked about the state of the Knicks, the criticism of his management of the team, and his relationship with Anthony. But James took exception with Jackson’s description of the group of friends who travel and work with him as his “posse.”

James and Maverick Carter, his close friend and business partner, both took offense at Jackson’s use of the word. Carter told ESPN.com he was bothered because of the idea that Jackson said it because James and his friends are “young and black, he can use that word.” James said he had lost respect for Jackson as a result of the comments.

“We see the success that we have, but then there is always someone that lets you know how far we still have to go as African-Americans,” James told reporters in Cleveland. “I don’t believe that Phil Jackson would have used that term if he was doing business with someone else and working with another team or if he was working with anybody in sports that was owning a team that wasn’t African-American and had a group of guys around them that didn’t agree with what they did. I don’t think he would have called them a posse. But it just shows how far we have to go. But it won’t stop us from doing what we need to do as a group.”

James, Carter and two other high school friends, Rich Paul and Randy Mims, founded L.R.M.R. Management Company a decade ago. The agency handles marketing and representation duties for James and other N.B.A. players. The company has been successful since its inception, positioning James as one of the top athletes-turned-entrepreneurs of his generation.

In the ESPN interview, Jackson, responding to a question about James’s decision to leave the Miami Heat, and whether he could imagine Magic Johnson leaving Pat Riley and the Los Angeles Lakers or Michael Jordan leaving Jackson and the Chicago Bulls, turned his response back around to James.

“When LeBron was playing with the Heat, they went to Cleveland and he wanted to spend the night,” Jackson told ESPN.com. “They don’t do overnights. Teams just don’t. So now Spoelstra” — a reference to the Heat coach, Erik Spoelstra — “has to text Riley and say, ‘What do I do in this situation?’ And Pat, who has iron-fist rules, answers, ‘You are on the plane, you are with this team.’ You can’t hold up the whole team because you and your mom and your posse want to spend an extra night in Cleveland.”

Jackson did not respond to James’s remarks Tuesday; he left Knicks practice without speaking to members of the news media and did not respond to an email.

While posse is defined as a group of friends or associates, Keith Gilyard, a professor of English and African-American studies at Penn State, said he could understand why James took offense. The cultural definition of the word has shifted toward defining drug cartels or, in cultural terms, the group of hangers-on that surround a celebrity.

“What we’re talking about is a rhetorical moment, and one of the things that’s interesting about rhetoric is sort of the study of who can say what to whom and under what conditions — or can say what about whom and under what conditions,” Gilyard said. “The word in and of itself is never neutral. It never means the same in all contexts.”

And when the word is used publicly, as by Jackson, instead of in a private conversation, its connotation changes, Gilyard said.

“When you have an official or executive that uses that language that makes its way into mainstream circulation, it has a different meaning,” he added. “Meaning shifts depending on contexts.”

With Jackson unavailable, it left Anthony, a close friend of James’s, to answer questions about the subject. Anthony agreed that he considered “posse” a loaded term, and he said that he would not want his group of friends or family to be referred that way. But Anthony declined to ascribe any assumptions or intent to Jackson.

“Do I think he meant it any kind of way?” Anthony said. “I really don’t know. I don’t think he did. I would hope that he didn’t.

“Sometimes Phil just says things and he says the first thing that comes to mind and then probably is in his office right now regretting it. I don’t know. When it comes to Phil, you just never know what’s going to be said, what’s coming out. It depends on who’s listening. People take it the right way or people take it the wrong way. You just never know when it comes to Phil.

“I just don’t understand him talking about LeBron right now, in November. I don’t understand that.”

Eddie Einhorn, who created a sports network that propelled national interest in college basketball, laying a foundation for the immense popularity of the annual tournament known as March Madness, died on Wednesday in Norwood, N.J. He was 80.

The cause was complications following a stroke, said his wife, Ann. He lived in Alpine, N.J.

In recent decades, Mr. Einhorn was known as a baseball executive. In 1981 he and his law school classmate Jerry Reinsdorf led a group of limited partners in buying the Chicago White Sox. He was the team president until 1990.

Mr. Einhorn made a more consequential contribution to sports as a television executive. He was in his 20s, a law student at Northwestern University in Chicago, when, working out of his dorm room, he put together a network from a handful of radio stations to broadcast the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball tournament.

This was the late 1950s; college basketball had little more than a regional following for local teams, and Mr. Einhorn was able to purchase the radio rights for a tiny fee.

By the early 1960s, he was broadcasting games on television. But as he recalled in “How March Became Madness,” a 2006 book written with Ron Rapoport, interest in college basketball was still so circumscribed that the telecast of the 1962 national final, in which Cincinnati defeated Ohio State, was seen only in Ohio.

The breakthrough came on Jan. 20, 1968, when U.C.L.A., with Lew Alcindor (later Kareem Abdul-Jabbar) at center, took a 47-game winning streak into the Houston Astrodome — then just three years old and still thought of as a glamorous building — to face the also undefeated University of Houston and its star center, Elvin Hayes.

More than 52,000 people attended, an extraordinary number for a basketball game even today, and they saw a captivating, tight contest dominated by Hayes, who scored 39 points in a 71-69 Houston victory.

The invincible reputation of U.C.L.A. was punctured, and so was the dominance of Alcindor, who had recently been sidelined with an eye injury. (In a rematch in the N.C.A.A. tournament that year, U.C.L.A trounced Houston, 101-69, holding Hayes to 10 points. Alcindor scored 19.)

The contest in the Astrodome, which came to be called the Game of the Century, was the first college basketball game to be televised nationally in prime time.

Millions watched on TVS — for television sports — as Mr. Einhorn had named his network, reportedly of some 150 stations in 49 states. Many of the stations were affiliated with CBS, ABC or NBC and angered the parent companies when they broadcast the game instead of the regular network programming.

It turned out to be the college basketball equivalent of the 1958 National Football League championship game between the Baltimore Colts and the New York Giants, an overtime contest, won by the Colts, that acquired its own hyperbolic nickname, “The Greatest Game Ever Played,” and ushered in the modern era of pro football on television.

NBC began broadcasting the N.C.A.A. tournament in 1969, and CBS seized the rights in 1982. In 2010, CBS and Turner Sports paid the N.C.A.A. nearly $11 billion for rights to broadcast the tournament for 14 years.

As a baseball executive, Mr. Einhorn was presiding over the White Sox when, in 1983, the third season of his tenure, they won the American League Western Division championship — the team’s first championship of any kind since 1959, when they captured the American League pennant but lost to the Dodgers in the World Series.

The 1983 team won 99 regular-season games, more than any White Sox team in 66 years (the 1917 club won 100), and more than any since then, with the exception of the 2005 Sox, who also won 99 as well as the World Series.

By 2005, Mr. Einhorn was no longer involved with the day-to-day operation of the club, but as vice chairman, a title he held at his death, he returned to Houston, the site of his greatest triumph in basketball, to celebrate the World Series victory over the Astros.

Edward Martin Einhorn was born in Paterson, N.J., on Jan. 3, 1936. His father, Harold, owned an insurance agency. His mother was the former Mae Lippman.

He went to the University of Pennsylvania, where he was a radio announcer for basketball games, and moved to Chicago for law school.

For a time, he worked as a vendor at Comiskey Park, the South Side home of the White Sox that he would have a hand in replacing some 30 years later. (In the late 1980s, with the team threatening to move to St. Petersburg, Fla., the state agreed to help finance a new stadium, now known as U.S. Cellular Field, which opened in 1991.)

Mr. Einhorn sold TVS to the Corinthian Broadcasting Corporation in 1973, though he continued to run it for several years afterward. For a time in the late 1970s, he was executive producer of “CBS Sports Spectacular,” which featured a variety of sports events.

He negotiated lucrative television contracts for Major League Baseball and was an architect of baseball’s own early television venture, The Baseball Network. Mr. Einhorn was a television consultant to the United States Olympic Committee and the United States Figure Skating Association.

In 1982, he founded a cable sports network in Chicago and put White Sox games on it, an enterprise that did not fare too well at a time when Chicago Cubs games were on free television.

In the mid-1980s, he also took over the Chicago franchise of the fledgling United States Football League, which was trying to move from a spring schedule to a fall schedule to compete directly against the N.F.L.

Mr. Einhorn was unable to negotiate a satisfactory television contract, and the league filed an antitrust suit against the N.F.L., claiming it had monopolized the fall schedule of the major networks, unfairly thwarting competition. The suit was decided in favor of the U.S.F.L., but the victory was a Pyrrhic one. Nominal damages were awarded, and the league folded after the 1985 season.

Mr. Einhorn married Ann Pelachik in 1962. In addition to her, his survivors include a brother, William; a son, Jeff; a daughter, Jennifer Jacobson; and a grandson.

Downtime for N.B.A. players is a study in relaxation techniques. After a practice or before a game, many indulge in video games, a movie, a book or the ever-popular nap. A day off might include all of the above.

But Pat Connaughton, a rookie with the Portland Trail Blazers, has a method all his own. On a nice day, he slips on a baseball glove, goes outdoors and plays catch with his father.

It is no ordinary catch, though, and it is not solely for relaxation or familial bonding. Connaughton, a lithe 6-foot-6 shooting guard with a smooth jump shot and a rocket arm, throws with a purpose.

He might go to a remote park around Portland, Ore., with his father, Len Connaughton, a real estate manager. Pat Connaughton loosens up from a close distance for a while, then throws 120 feet on a line and then moves in to 60 feet, firing 90-mile-per-hour lasers that slice through the air.

“Some guys take naps,” Connaughton said last week before a game against the Knicks. “As busy as we are and as focused as we are at our sport, there are times the coaches want you to get away from basketball. If my dad’s not around, then I’ll go out and throw against a fence.”

Connaughton, a gregarious 23-year-old with high aspirations, is not throwing only for recreation, though. He is like any pitcher readying himself to enter a game — the only difference is that the game is two, three, maybe 10 years away.

“Even if I have a successful and plentiful N.B.A. career,” he said, “someday I am going to go back and try to be a big league pitcher.”

Later Tuesday night against the Knicks, Connaughton briefly played for the first time in six games. The next night, in a game in his hometown, Boston, he had 7 points while playing 7 minutes 45 seconds, each figure a career high.

Connaughton does not play much. Few second-round draft picks do. For many observers, including the hopeful Baltimore Orioles, baseball is Connaughton’s better sport.

“He has the talent to be a top-of-the-rotation guy,” Rick Peterson, the Orioles’ pitching coordinator, said in Sarasota, Fla., on Friday. “He has a major league arm, but just as important, he is a major league person, and that is a prerequisite. He has everything it takes.”

Peterson helped usher in a golden pitching era in Oakland with Tim Hudson, Mark Mulder and Barry Zito. He also worked closely with Pedro Martinez and Tom Glavine with the Mets. But when he watched Connaughton throw a bullpen session in Sarasota in summer 2014, he witnessed something he had never quite seen before.

“His fastball looked like no other fastball,” Peterson said. “It has the most unique late movement I’ve ever seen.”

That bullpen session was shortly after the Orioles had drafted Connaughton in the fourth round of the Major League Baseball amateur draft. That summer, in six games during a brief turn with the Class A Aberdeen IronBirds, Connaughton had an eye-opening 2.45 E.R.A. over 142/3 innings. Then he was off to Italy on a trip with the Notre Dame basketball team, followed by his senior year with the Fighting Irish.

Connaughton played both baseball and basketball at Notre Dame, but after graduation, he told the Orioles that basketball was his preference. He adores the sport, and he had to see if he could make it.

Contrary to many predictions, he was drafted — 41st over all by the Nets. He was immediately traded to the Trail Blazers, whose general manager, Neil Olshey, is considered a top talent evaluator.

In order to sign his rookie contract, Connaughton had to give up professional baseball for at least two years, although he said Portland was fine with his light throwing program. After two years, the Blazers say, Connaughton can petition to have that condition reconsidered.

That is why he continues to play catch. Peterson and Chris Correnti, an Orioles trainer who has worked closely with Martinez and Johan Santana, gave Connaughton the Orioles’ standard off-season throwing program to follow in his free time. Connaughton also stretches out his arm every night to help keep it in shape.

“I understand assets,” he said. “My arm is an asset, and I need to take care of it.”

Connaughton relishes a challenge, especially overcoming doubters who said he would never be drafted in the N.B.A., that Notre Dame’s 2-point loss to Kentucky in the Midwest Regional final of last year’s N.C.A.A. tournament was his basketball peak.

It very well may not be. But to date, Connaughton’s N.B.A. journey has been unsurprising for a second-round pick. He gets most of his playing time in practice as a member of the scout team.

In real games, he is averaging 3.0 minutes and 0.8 of a point. He has played in only 25 of the Blazers’ 64 games. Yet even that is more than most expected.

“No one thought I would be here,” he said. “You see people say: ‘He should go back to baseball. He should do this; he should do that.’ Those are people who said I would never even make it here. There’s always another hurdle to go over, and it’s fun to use that as motivation.”

If he develops into a solid N.B.A. player, Connaughton could gain the leverage needed to play both sports professionally, the way Chuck Connors, Dave DeBusschere and Danny Ainge once did.

Connaughton is no longer an Orioles employee, but the team retains his rights in case he returns to baseball. So when Connaughton heard that a reporter was soon headed to Orioles camp in Florida, he smiled.

“Tell them I said hello,” he said with a playful wink, “and I’ll see them shortly.”

Villanova (31-3), which won last year’s N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament on a three-pointer at the buzzer in the championship game, was awarded the top overall seed in this year’s bracket, released Sunday evening, one day after winning the Big East tournament.

The other No. 1 seeds include North Carolina (27-7), the team Villanova beat in that thrilling 2016 title game; Kansas (28-4), which has now received a top seed seven times in Coach Bill Self’s 14 seasons; and Gonzaga (32-1), from the West Coast Conference, which despite several deep runs and, now, 19 straight berths has never made the Final Four.

The preseason Nos. 1 and 2 in the Associated Press poll, Duke (27-8) and Kentucky (28-5), earned No. 2 seeds. Both are loaded with talent, including several freshmen expected to turn pro later this year, and while each struggled at times due to inexperience and injury, in recent weeks they seem to have cohered, respectively winning the Atlantic Coast and Southeastern Conference tournaments.

The highest-seeded team from the Pacific-12 was conference champion Arizona (30-4), with a two-seed, while the Big Ten’s highest-ranked member was fourth-seeded Purdue (25-7).

Northwestern (23-11) was virtually assured of its first berth ever in the nearly 80 years of the tournament.

Here’s a breakdown of each region:

One-loss Gonzaga was installed as a No. 1 seed for the second time in program history, but the last time, in 2013, did not go so well. The Bulldogs lost to ninth-seeded Wichita State in the second round. But while Gonzaga (32-1) still has never been to a Final Four, the Bulldogs are a worthy No. 1: They lost only to Brigham Young and outscored opponents by more than 23 points a game. The Zags’ biggest problem? Arizona, the Pac-12 champion, lurks at No. 2.

NORTHWESTERN IS IN Is something in the water in Chicago? First the Cubs win the World Series, and now the Wildcats, the darlings of the Big Ten, are in the tournament for the first time. Eighth-seeded Northwestern will face Vanderbilt in a battle of colleges used to being overlooked — sometimes for good reason — in sports.

UPSET SPECIAL Harvard in 2014. Yale in 2016. Don’t bet against the Ivies. Princeton, unbeaten in the conference, winner of the league’s inaugural tournament, has won 19 in a row. You can make it 20. Sorry, Notre Dame.

Winning a regular-season title was clearly valued by the selection committee, which made North Carolina a No. 1 seed despite its loss to Duke in the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament. The South might be the most fun region to watch: North Carolina, the talent-rich blue bloods Kentucky and U.C.L.A., and Wichita State and Wake Forest all have top-20 scoring offenses.

OH, YOU AGAIN A Wichita State-Kentucky rematch? Sign us up. Too bad it would come in the second round. Three years after a classic round-of-8 game, Wichita State could be poised for revenge. One analyst, Ken Pomeroy, rates the 10th-seeded Shockers as the nation’s eighth-best team.

UPSET SPECIAL Louisville Coach Rick Pitino and his son Richard, who leads Minnesota, are the first father-son coaching duo in one N.C.A.A. tournament. But Minnesota is a good bet to go down to Middle Tennessee State, which is 30-4 and which eliminated Michigan State a year ago.

Kansas may have the easiest path to the Final Four of any of the No. 1 seeds. The Jayhawks would not normally like seeing Michigan State in its region, but the ninth-seeded Spartans have been troubled by injuries. Louisville, the No. 2 seed, is typically tough on defense, but the Jayhawks appear rested and ready as they chase their first N.C.A.A. title since 2008.

TEAM OF DESTINY Something happened in those few harrowing seconds when Michigan’s plane skidded off the runway in an aborted takeoff en route to the Big Ten tournament. The Wolverines, the eighth seed in that tournament, won four straight games to earn a No. 7 seed in this one. A deathly scare seems to have given Michigan new life.

UPSET SPECIAL Few picked Iona to win even the M.A.A.C. tournament, but don’t be shocked if the Gaels stun No. 3 Oregon. The Ducks are reeling after losing the senior Chris Boucher (11.8 points, 6.1 rebounds, 2.5 blocks) to a knee injury.

It was no surprise that Villanova, the Big East champion, received the bracket’s No. 1 overall seed. But the Wildcats (31-3) could end up meeting Duke (27-8) for a trip to the Final Four. Despite three straight wins over ranked teams en route to the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament title, the Blue Devils failed to supplant North Carolina — whom they defeated in two of three meetings this season — as a No. 1 seed.

HARD TO FORGET Try to remember this name: Jesusemilore Talodabijesu Ojeleye. Better known as Semi, the junior forward leads red-hot Southern Methodist, a No. 6 seed that has won 16 in a row. Coach Larry Brown’s abrupt resignation last summer seemed to galvanize the Mustangs, who are third in the nation in scoring defense. All five starters are 6 feet 6 inches or taller.

UPSET SPECIAL South Carolina is staggering in with six losses in its past nine games and was probably over-seeded as a No. 7. The Gamecocks will struggle with Marquette, which leads the nation in 3-point shooting percentage (43 percent).

You want a hot team for your bracket? How about Michigan, which has not lost since its plane slid off the runway in Ypsilanti on Wednesday.

No one was hurt, but the accident meant the team had to travel to the Big Ten tournament on game day morning and wear makeshift uniforms for their first round game. Not a recipe for success? Think again. Michigan, seeded just eighth, reeled off four straight wins in four days, over No. 9 Illinois, No. 1 Purdue, No. 4 Minnesota and No. 2 Wisconsin to take the tournament. Hot teams in conference tournaments have sometimes immediately flamed out in the N.C.A.A. tournament, so there’s no guarantee Michigan’s run will continue. But if you believe in momentum, you might want to give the Wolverines a close look.

Arizona, Bucknell, Duke, East Tennessee State, Florida Gulf Coast, Gonzaga, Iona, Iowa State, Jacksonville State, Kent State, Kentucky, Michigan, Middle Tennessee, Mount St. Mary’s, Nevada, New Mexico State, New Orleans, North Carolina Central, North Dakota, Northern Kentucky, U.N.C. Wilmington, Princeton, Rhode Island, South Dakota State, Texas Southern, U.C. Davis, Vermont, Villanova, Wichita State, Winthrop.

28 and Counting for Kansas: The Jayhawks will make their record-breaking 28th consecutive appearance in the tournament, passing North Carolina’s mark from 1975-2001. Kansas also won the Big 12 conference this year for an N.C.A.A. Division I record 13th straight time, breaking U.C.L.A.’s conference streak from 1967-79. After Kansas was upset by Texas Christian, 85-82, in the Big 12 tournament, we’ll see if the Jayhawks are able to play up to their seeding, which they have not always been able to do in past tournaments.

When the cameras start rolling Thursday night at Barclays Center, scene of the National Basketball Association draft, one of the biggest stories won’t be a player, but a parent: LaVar Ball, father of the U.C.L.A. phenom Lonzo Ball, who is projected to be among the top five picks.

As his son rocketed to fame, the elder Ball always seemed one step ahead, declaring that Lonzo would play for the Los Angeles Lakers; lecturing Charles Barkley on the psychology of a champion; comparing his own game to Michael Jordan’s and judging it superior. He is taking a central role in dealings with apparel companies and even teams over his son’s financial future.

But while pundits derided LaVar Ball as the state of the art in obsessive sports dads — an Earl Woods or Stefano Capriati for the social media age — he may actually epitomize a model that extends far beyond the arena: the helicopter parent of the workplace.

As millennials grow into their working years, with many of them coming of age in the daunting job market that followed the Great Recession, parents are more likely to feel a proprietary stake in their children’s careers, said Ryan Webb, a recruiter and former human resources director at the New York Conservatory for Dramatic Arts. The hovering is abetted by a full complement of real-time communications options — from texting to Skype and social media — and fueled by the desire to see a return on investment for sending children to college in an age of escalating tuition.

“Mom and Dad footed the college bill, made sacrifices to get that extra thing on their résumé, so they felt part of the process,” said Mr. Webb, who said that texting one’s parents was frequently the first reflex for the millennials in his charge after a run-in with a manager.

Brandi Britton, a recruiter with OfficeTeam, a division of the firm Robert Half, said she never saw or heard from parents when she entered the business nearly two decades ago but has increasingly felt their influence. She recalled a father calling her in the past two years in an attempt to get his son an accounting job. The father sent in his son’s résumé, scheduled the interview and, to her surprise, turned up with him in person. “He was shepherding that thing,” she said.

When OfficeTeam solicited employers’ helicopter-parenting stories in a 2016 survey, they found this was not unheard-of. One told of a job candidate who piped his mother into an interview via Skype, while another recalled a mother asking if she could sit for an interview in place of her child, who had a scheduling conflict. A third mother interrupted in the middle of an interview to ask if she could observe.

While such parents, like LaVar Ball, may be outliers, and most millennials are perfectly capable of negotiating their own way in the workplace, some organizations genuinely appear to be struggling with a scourge of parental meddling. In her book “How to Raise an Adult,” the former Stanford freshmen dean Julie Lythcott-Haims reports that officials at Teach for America have been mystified in recent years by the volume of parents who intervene on behalf of their adult children, whom the group employs as teachers.

A Teach for America administrator told Ms. Lythcott-Haims that parents had called him with complaints about such issues as their child’s being disciplined by a principal or having a run-in with a fellow teacher, as though the adult child were still a student. (Teach for America did not respond to a request for comment.)

Andrea Colabella, a recruiter for companies like hedge funds and private equity firms, said that one of the crucial questions her firm asked candidates before they ever received an offer was, “Who do you need to talk to before you make a decision?” They do so to avoid any last-minute blowups when an offer does come. “For millennials, at least those who have graduated in the past five years, 80 percent of the time it’s parents, versus friends or a mentor,” she said.

The data would appear to back her up. In a 2015 study by Robert Half that surveyed university students born between 1990 and 1999, more than 80 percent said their parents or guardians would influence their career choices after graduation. (Millennials are generally defined as the generation born between the early 1980s and late 1990s to early 2000s.)

The phenomenon began emerging as millennials hit the job market over a decade ago. In 2007, the Collegiate Employment Research Institute at Michigan State University published a survey of 725 employers that found that nearly a quarter had encountered parental involvement in the hiring process and the early stages of workers’ careers.

Within that group of employers, more than 30 percent reported parents submitting a résumé for their children; 15 percent reported fielding complaints from a parent when the company didn’t hire their child; and nearly 10 percent said parents had insinuated themselves into salary and benefit negotiations.

In recent years, many companies have begun embracing the relationship between parents and their adult children rather than chafing at it, perhaps even co-opting it for their benefit, which some experts believe has largely defused the worst parental tendencies.

This November, LinkedIn will hold its fifth annual Bring In Your Parents Day, an event the company said has spread to scores of companies globally. Blair Decembrele, a LinkedIn official who oversees the event, said part of the rationale was the realization the workers relied heavily on their parents for career advice. “My dad came to a few — he’s been really excited about what I do,” she said. “He knows my team, colleagues, boss. We can have much more in-depth conversation about professional career development with him having insight into that.”

Or consider Cornerstone OnDemand, a company based in Santa Monica, Calif., that develops software that employers use for recruiting, training and managing workers. Cornerstone started its “Bring Your Parents to Work Day” around the same time as LinkedIn, according to Kimberly Cassady, its vice president for talent, partly because employees were already toting their parents to the office.

“It was not uncommon to meet a parent in the elevator, walking around the office,” she said. “They would rave about the place, but still have this question — ‘I still don’t know what he/she does.’”

Alexandra Geller, the company’s investor relations manager and a millennial herself, said the event allowed her mother, who flew in from Connecticut, to put faces to recurring characters in their conversations. “She was able to meet people she hadn’t met in the past, who we talk about on a regular basis,” Ms. Geller said.

Perhaps inadvertently, the event has also highlighted some generational differences. According to Ms. Cassady, the millennial workers — who make up about half of those who attend — tend to hang out with their parents for parts of the day. The older workers, by contrast, tend to “come in at 10 a.m. and go do their work.”

Of course, professional sports may be the one corner of the work force where parental involvement was very much the norm long before the millennials turned up, if for no other reason than that it involves adult children playing a kids’ game for a living. One can only assume that N.B.A. parents have been harassing coaches for years, even if they only recently started getting caught doing so by fans with ready access to social media.

Still, there does appear to be something uniquely millennial-parent about LaVar Ball, who in addition to hatching Big Baller Brand, the family apparel line, has created a sports talent agency, Ball Sports Group, whose sole purpose will be to represent Lonzo and his two brothers, high school standouts who are expected to follow their brother to U.C.L.A.

Perhaps most tellingly in this regard, Mr. Ball reportedly demanded that any apparel company intent on signing Lonzo license the Big Baller Brand, telling USA Today that a deal including all three sons would have to yield them $1 billion. (The apparel heavyweights all told him no, thanks, according to ESPN.)

While other prominent sports parents have exerted influence over their adult children’s business decisions, “I can’t think of anybody who turned their back on the marketing might and power of a Nike, an Adidas, or any of those companies, and said, ‘Nope, I’m going to do it myself,’” said Bob Dorfman, a sports marketing expert at Baker Street Advertising. “It’s definitely unprecedented.”

As word of Mr. Ball’s parenting style has spread — he has reportedly been training his brood for the N.B.A. since the time they could walk — some have compared him to Marv Marinovich, who groomed his son Todd to be a professional quarterback with a fanatical regimen that began in utero.

Todd Marinovich, a heralded college player, managed a mere eight games in the National Football League in the early 1990s and has struggled with drug addiction much of his life. But while his highly programmed upbringing led to his being labeled “Robo QB,” he says his father, in stark contrast to Mr. Ball, had no involvement in his negotiations with teams or marketing officials.

“One thing about Marv, he knew his limitations,” Todd Marinovich said in an interview. “In terms of representation, he knew he was out of his element.”

He added, “He comes from an older generation.”

Just about the time the San Antonio Spurs had finished a workout at Baruch College early Sunday afternoon came news that they would be facing a team in Brooklyn on Monday night in deep leadership turmoil.

Tom James, the Spurs’ senior director of communications, spread the word that the Nets had fired another coach, Lionel Hollins, and reassigned General Manager Billy King after the team’s 27th defeat in 37 games.

In other words, Mikhail D. Prokhorov, the Nets’ very rich Russian owner, had spoken.

Even more newsworthy, the Nets announced that Prokhorov would actually be surfacing at a Monday morning news conference, hopefully to explain how his audacious five-year championship guarantee had disintegrated into a qualitative mess of seismic proportions.

In one of those scheduling quirks of fate, the Spurs, the N.B.A.’s best-run team over the last decade and a half, will roll into Barclays Center to probably inflict more damage on a discombobulated, deflated franchise that had earnest designs on becoming San Antonio Northeast at the dawn of the Prokhorov era.

With Prokhorov, the league’s first majority owner not from North America, the Nets hoped to become another pillar of the league’s expanding global community, competitively exemplified by the Spurs and their innovating coach, Gregg Popovich. Who can forget Prokhorov standing up tall — 6 feet 8 inches — at his introductory news conference in May 2010 to slyly say, “America, I come in peace”?

Then Prokhorov, after staging an entertaining show designed to launch a war with the Knicks for the hearts and minds of basketball New York, pretty much left the deliverance of his bold (or pompous) promise of a title to the imagination and execution of King.

Left no choice but to wildly swing for the fences, King struck out with risk-filled trades when conventional wisdom would have dictated more gradual team building along with a Brooklyn fan base. The Nets made the playoffs in each of their first three seasons in Brooklyn but have sunk to near the bottom of the league and won’t have control of their first-round draft pick until 2019.

Once heralded as the Russian Mark Cuban for running an N.B.A.-like operation with his CSKA Moscow team, Prokhorov became more of an anti-Cuban.

He spent like a drunken banker, allowing King to ignore salary-cap constraints and to establish records for punitive taxes. But while Cuban has been as much the face of the Dallas franchise as any player, Dirk Nowitzki included, Prokhorov became the essence of absenteeism, dropping by on rare occasions to observe from a Barclays luxury suite, even as he moved to tighten ownership control of the team and the arena.

Given the sad state of what should be an ascendant franchise, Commissioner Adam Silver said he had already had discussions with Prokhorov about what it meant to him to own an N.B.A. franchise whose estimated worth had soared to $1.5 billion, sixth best in the N.B.A., even as it was losing nearly $100 million last year, according to Forbes.com.

In an email, Silver wrote that Prokhorov “and his partner, Dmitry Razumov, have told me that they intend to be more involved in the management of the franchise throughout the transition and moving forward.”

When Prokhorov first appeared as a rescue operator for Bruce C. Ratner’s cash-starved ownership in New Jersey, he was described by Ettore Messina, a former CSKA coach, as a hands-off owner.

“He says, ‘I select the specialists, they do their job, and at the end I evaluate,’ ” said Messina, now an assistant coach on Popovich’s San Antonio staff and perhaps a contender for the Nets job next season. “In the four years I was there, he never made a call on basketball.”

What has he done in Brooklyn? Who knows? As Silver said: “Many successful franchises have owners who step back and largely delegate the day-to-day management of their teams; others are obviously more hands-on — and which is which isn’t necessarily dictated by the physical location of the owner.”

There is also a fine line for ownership of a professional sports franchise, an approach that stops short of interfering with team executives but remains present and accountable for what ultimately occurs.

In Midtown Manhattan, James L. Dolan has had no shortage of critics over the last decade-plus for his emotional and occasionally ruinous incursions into team-functioning territory.

Conversely, Dolan’s presence and commitment cannot be questioned. And the Nets cannot claim to have been better off with Prokhorov at the other ownership extreme, even with King and company within texting proximity and a Russian proxy or two entrenched in Brooklyn.

Hollins’s assistant, Tony Brown, will take over on Monday night as an interim replacement, the Nets’ fifth coach since the move to Brooklyn. More important will be Prokhorov’s making his first personnel-directing hire to replace King.

Does he talk to league people enough to know who the best candidates are? Does he have a network of owners and league executives he can trust? Almost six years since Prokhorov made his grand entrance, all we know about him is that he and his money talk a good game.

“We have learned a great deal during the past six years, and our experiences will guide us for the future,” he said Sunday in his statement.

He can begin by delivering on his promise to Silver to stick around for the transition process, even if being in New York is a painful reminder of how the Nets not only failed to upstage the Knicks, but also watched Dolan’s team claim the international sizzle with the drafting of the Latvian rookie Kristaps Porzingis.

Forget the Spurs. In a cruel twist, the Nets have a long way to go to just be the Knicks.