Just days after employees at NFL Network were accused of sexual harassment, the Carolina Panthers said Friday that the team had begun an investigation into “allegations of workplace misconduct” made against the team’s owner, Jerry Richardson.

In a statement late Friday, the team said it had hired outside counsel to handle the investigation. The team did not describe the allegations against Richardson, the Panthers’ founder and the only owner in their 24-year history.

“The Carolina Panthers and Mr. Richardson take these allegations very seriously and are fully committed to a full investigation and taking appropriate steps to address and remediate any misconduct,” the statement said.

The investigation into Richardson brings a broadening focus on workplace harassment to the heart of the country’s wealthiest and most powerful sports league. While he has assumed a lower profile recently, Richardson for years traveled in the inner circle of the league’s business. He is the lone former N.F.L. player within the league’s ownership fraternity.

The Panthers announced that the team had hired the law firm Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan to look into the accusations against Richardson, and that Erskine Bowles, a Clinton administration official and a minority owner of the team, would oversee the investigation.

It is unclear how independent the investigation will be because it is being led by a team stakeholder who is presumably close to Richardson. In other investigations of sports franchise owners, the league itself has taken the lead, such as when the N.B.A. looked into racist remarks made by Donald Sterling, then the owner of the Los Angeles Clippers.

Bowles was the White House chief of staff for President Bill Clinton in 1997 and 1998, when an investigation began into Clinton’s sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky, who was a White House intern.

Richardson has served on many of the influential owners’ committees, and he played a large role in ending the N.F.L. lockout in 2011. In 2015, he was at the center of the league’s handling of domestic violence allegations. He announced the Panthers would not re-sign defensive end Greg Hardy — who had been suspended by the league and convicted of domestic violence, though the conviction was later overturned. Richardson explained the decision simply: “We do the right things.”

The investigation into Richardson was first reported by ESPN.

The news of the investigation followed a report Monday that a former NFL Network wardrobe stylist had filed an amended complaint in a lawsuit that accused employees at the network of sexual harassment and assault. Six current and former NFL Network employees, including five former N.F.L. players, have been suspended.

N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said Wednesday at an owners meeting in Dallas that the league would investigate the claims in the lawsuit.

The N.F.L. updated its personal conduct policy in 2014, expanding the guidelines and penalties to cover not just players, but all employees. The league also set up its own investigative unit to look into claims of misconduct off the field.

Joe Lockhart, an N.F.L. spokesman, declined to comment on the investigation involving Richardson.

Richardson, 81, has largely dropped out of view in the past two years. The turning point came when the league’s owners voted to let the Rams move from St. Louis to Los Angeles in 2016. He had recommended that the Oakland Raiders and the San Diego Chargers be allowed to move there. (The Chargers moved to Los Angeles this year.)

Richardson did not attend Wednesday’s owners meeting, where a $200 million contract extension for Goodell became official, but he did send the six owners on the commissioner’s compensation committee a letter that called for more transparency in how the committee did its work.

“We should not manage to avoid criticism, but work passionately to provide positive outcomes,” Richardson wrote. “Nothing less should be expected or accepted.”

Richardson played two seasons in the N.F.L., in 1959 and 1960. He later became a restaurant magnate, running a food service company that worked with the Hardee’s chain. He was awarded an N.F.L. expansion franchise in 1993, and the team began play in 1995.

Richardson has endured several health scares. He has overcome prostate cancer, and he had a heart transplant in 2009.

After Richardson’s two sons left the Panthers that year, speculation arose about who would take over the franchise. According to various news reports, the team is to be sold two years after Richardson dies.

In February, Danny Morrison, the team president, resigned. In July, Richardson fired General Manager Dave Gettleman and hired Marty Hurney, who had been fired by Richardson in 2012, as the interim general manager.

PHILADELPHIA — When the N.F.L. draft was last held here, in 1961, teams chose players in a smoke-filled hotel ballroom, a modest group of sportswriters dutifully covered the proceedings, and only a few fans bothered to attend.

Since then, and especially in the past few years, the league has turned the draft into a mammoth spectacle, complete with red-carpet entrances for prospective players broadcast live on two television networks. This year, the league outdid itself by holding the event outdoors for the first time, in a park in front of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, where more than 70,000 people drank beer, rubbed elbows with fans of rival teams and hooted and hollered as the names of the first 32 players chosen were announced.

Fittingly, perhaps, the N.F.L. also embraced the spirit of Rocky Balboa, the movie character who defined the city’s underdog quality, and whose statue stands next to the museum. Carl Weathers, who played Balboa’s rival, Apollo Creed, made a cameo appearance before the draft began. The draft picks bucked the odds, just like Rocky, the N.F.L. seemed to be saying.

Underdog status is not something normally assigned to the N.F.L., the most powerful sports league in the country. But amid the jubilation was a sense that storm clouds are gathering. Last season, for the first time, ratings at every one of the league’s top broadcast partners declined. Ratings may rebound, but the league’s owners — who make the majority of their revenue from television deals — now must confront the possibility that the networks will resist paying ever larger sums for the right to air games.

The owners got another reminder of that possibility on Wednesday, when ESPN, the 800-pound gorilla of sports television, laid off about 100 on-air sportscasters and reporters, including a handful of veteran writers for its digital site who covered the N.F.L.

Before then came a wave of relocations that pushed the league into new markets — but also alienated fans in three cities that lost, or are losing, teams: San Diego, St. Louis and Oakland, Calif. The Rams are now playing in Los Angeles; next season the Chargers will be there, and by 2019, the Raiders will be in Las Vegas.

The moves re-emphasized that the league’s biggest priority remains making money — from relocation fees the moving teams pay the league, plus the league’s cut of naming rights, sponsorships and other revenue boosts — no matter the complaints from deserted fans.

The league is still facing more cosmic questions, most notably the long-term effects of concussions. With the help of a federal judge in Philadelphia, the N.F.L. agreed to pay millions of dollars to former players who have received diagnoses for serious neurological conditions. So far, a few hundred players have applied for cash payouts, with many more likely to come.

Though they continue to watch N.F.L. games in droves, some fans now take a jaundiced view of the owners, and particularly the commissioner, Roger Goodell, who speaks for them.

Mike Carr, a Cleveland Browns fan who drove 15 hours from Michigan to watch the draft, seemed to sum up that outlook. Carr wore a T-shirt that said “Johnny Rehab,” a nod to Johnny Manziel, the troubled quarterback drafted by the Browns in 2014. Before the draft began, Carr said he had made the trip in the hope that he could watch the Browns acquire Myles Garrett, the defensive end from Texas A&M, as the No. 1 overall pick, which they ultimately did.

“But I’m mostly really looking forward to booing Goodell,” he said.

Carr was not alone, based on the deafening boos from fans that greeted Goodell every time he took the stage.

Concussions aren’t the only legal headache confronting the league. Hundreds of retired players have also sued the N.F.L., asserting that their teams gave them painkillers without explaining the risks, including the possibility of addiction. A growing number of players are now asking the N.F.L. to let them use medical marijuana to deal with the pain associated with playing football. But Goodell once again shot down that idea on Friday, suggesting that marijuana is addictive and nodding to the possibility that the N.F.L. could be sued if it softened its stance on its use.

“And it’s not as simple as someone just wants to feel better after a game,” Goodell said on the “Mike & Mike” radio show. “We really want to help our players in that circumstance, but I want to make sure that the negative consequences aren’t something that is something that we’ll be held accountable for some years down the road.”

The N.F.L., of course, will not fall from its perch any time soon, though its growth may slow. To keep the money coming in, the owners have pushed overseas, with more games in London, Mexico and, league officials have said, China, at some point. The league is also striking digital-media deals, like the one it signed with Amazon to stream games on Thursday nights.

The N.F.L. will also continue to turn the draft into a moneymaking roadshow by moving it to new cities every so often.

But if that is not enough, the draft might take on underdog status after all.

MINNEAPOLIS — As knowledge about head trauma and concussions has increased over the past decade, a growing number of parents have warned their children about the perils of football. Icons of the sport like Bo Jackson have said they would not have played had they known what we know now, while others have said they would actively discourage their children and grandchildren from playing.

Yet here at the home of Sunday’s Super Bowl, the N.F.L. has found a way around those warnings. The league is speaking to children directly.

On Wednesday, after two hours of sprinting around the booths at a Super Bowl Experience sponsored by the cable network Nickelodeon, about 2,500 children made their way to the N.F.L. Play 60 Field — everything at the Experience has a branded name — for a musical performance by JoJo Siwa.

You might not know Siwa, but your child certainly does. A YouTube star and participant on the reality show “Dance Moms,” Siwa, 14, is a familiar face to the millions who watch her videos and sing along to her songs.

During a break in her performance on Wednesday, she led the crowd in singing “Happy Birthday” to Play 60 — the N.F.L. youth fitness campaign that began late in 2007. After she left, Keith McMaster, the master of ceremonies, took the stage and asked for “a big round of applause for the N.F.L. and JoJo Siwa.”

Siwa was performing at the behest of Nickelodeon, the Viacom-owned television network known for hit children’s shows like “PAW Patrol” and “SpongeBob SquarePants.” While a number of N.F.L. sponsors have created a prominent presence for themselves at the Super Bowl, Nickelodeon is by far the largest company that interacts primarily with children.

“This is probably physically the biggest thing we do,” Cyma Zarghami, the president of Nickelodeon, said.

Over the past five or six years, Nickelodeon has been “reinvesting in the relationship that kids have to sports,” Zarghami said. And while Nickelodeon has partnerships with most of the country’s biggest leagues and has a presence at Nascar races, the N.B.A. All-Star Game and tennis’s United States Open, it has no bigger sports partner than the N.F.L.

Research conducted by the league has found that most avid N.F.L. fans became attached to the sport in elementary school. With participation rates in youth football declining and parents ever more aware of the risks of head trauma from playing the sport, the N.F.L. needed new ways to reach young people. A deep partnership with the biggest children’s television network was an obvious strategy. And Nickelodeon has been eager to help. They have been partners since 2010.

“As the biggest spectator sport, everybody is looking at sort of how they cultivate the next generation of fans,” Zarghami said. “We are a great entree into that.”

“Kids love Nickelodeon,” Kamran Mumtaz, a spokesman for the N.F.L., said in an email. “Kids love sports. Kids love the Super Bowl. And the Super Bowl is all about larger than life sports entertainment. Together, we can bring the excitement of Super Bowl week to kids and parents in a fun and unique way.”

At Wednesday’s performance, parents, teachers and chaperones sat in bleachers or stood in clusters of two or three as their charges crowded the stage to be near Siwa. They roared when McMaster, also known as Coach Keith, said they were being filmed and might appear on Nickelodeon on Sunday, as Siwa’s performance would be the “halftime show” for Nickelodeon’s “Superstar Slime Showdown at Super Bowl.”

Upstairs at the Super Bowl Experience, the N.F.L.-themed carnival and trade show that pops up at the game every year, league partners like Bridgestone, Castrol and FedEx have booths with football-themed activities. But even inside a cavernous downtown convention center, the sight of Nickelodeon’s immediately recognizable bright orange and slime green colors made the network’s booth the most attractive to the children in attendance.

As helpers got two young volunteers settled in plastic ponchos and into a set of clear glass booths — buckets hanging ominously overhead, like age-appropriate swords of Damocles — a man led dozens of children in a modified version of the Minnesota Vikings’ Skol chant.

“Slime! Slime! Slime! Slime!”

Slimed they were.

The day’s larger question went unanswered. As the N.F.L. is mired in a concussion crisis, has dealt with high-profile cases of domestic violence and was in the middle of a political tug of war this season, why does Nickelodeon associate with the league?

“We think it is wrong to target children in this way,” said Josh Golin, the executive director of the Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood. In 2015, the organization released a report criticizing the N.F.L.’s efforts to market itself to children.

To Golin, one of the biggest offenders was “NFL Rush Zone,” a bizarre, animated show produced by Nickelodeon and the N.F.L. that combined football and superheroes. “Many children’s television shows are trying to sell a product,” he said, “but this is so blatant that it is just an ad for the N.F.L.”

Zarghami, the Nickelodeon president, has heard criticism of the network’s relationship with the N.F.L. before. “Look, as a mother, it’s tough, it’s a tough sport,” she said. But what children see on Nickelodeon are players getting slimed and interacting with other kids, humanizing them.

“The actual sport doesn’t ever actually get to Nickelodeon,” she said.

As a children’s channel, Nickelodeon is at the forefront of numerous trends, like the movement from traditional television onto digital platforms and the rise of YouTube stars like Siwa. But while observers have predicted for decades that other sports will eventually overtake the N.F.L. — and Zarghami said Nickelodeon would like to be more involved with soccer and women’s sports — football is still the most popular sport in the country, even among children.

And if something is popular, she said, Nickelodeon feels it has to be there. “Another place where kids have a lot of passion is the music business,” she said. “That comes with its pros and cons, too.”

“We have to be connected to what kids care about,” she added, “and that’s really what we are about.”

Television ratings for the N.F.L. have fallen 17 percent over the past two seasons. The league is embroiled in a continuing crisis over concussions, and youth participation rates are falling.

All of this suggests a difficult future for the sport, yet the N.F.L.’s most notorious competitor, Vince McMahon’s XFL, has a comeback in the works.

McMahon, the chairman and chief executive of World Wrestling Entertainment, announced on Thursday that he would take a second crack at professional football, with play scheduled to start in early 2020.

McMahon first tried to reimagine pro football 17 years ago. The old XFL was a joint venture between the World Wrestling Federation (W.W.E.’s former name) and NBC, which had lost rights to broadcast N.F.L. games.

Violence was amped up: An opening scramble replaced the coin toss and fair catches were banned. So was the sex appeal, with cheerleaders who were even more scantily clad than the ones in the N.F.L., and advertising that included innuendo about them.

“Where is my smash-mouth, wide-open football?” McMahon asked rhetorically at the news conference announcing plans for the original XFL “This will not be a league for pantywaists and sissies.”

After the league drew huge television ratings its first week, disorganization plagued the operation, and fans became disenchanted by the confusing, sloppy brand of football played by inferior players. The league collapsed after just one season, with NBC and the W.W.F. losing tens of millions of dollars. Four years later NBC paid $3 billion to get back into the N.F.L.

Now McMahon says he wants to reimagine the game. “Not reinvent,” he said in an interview last week. “It’s football. But you want to reimagine it.”

Other than the name, this version will have little in common with the old XFL, he said.

There will be no cheerleaders, McMahon said. Players with criminal records will not be welcome. Political statements, such as kneeling during the national anthem, will be prohibited.

President Trump, who has denounced N.F.L. players’ protesting racial injustice by refusing to stand during the anthem, has long been involved with the McMahons and W.W.E. Linda McMahon, Vince’s wife, was appointed by Trump to run the Small Business Administration.

Trump has hosted wrestling events at his properties and has been involved in the showmanship, once shaving McMahon’s head in the middle of a ring. Trump was also involved in an alternative professional league in the 1980s, owning the New Jersey Generals of the short-lived United States Football League.

But McMahon said that he had not consulted with Trump about the XFL, and that the ban on politics during games would extend to the president’s positions.

“Democrat, Republican, Independent, I don’t care, and no one should,” said McMahon. “We come to the field not to state what I am pro or against, that’s not why we’re there. We are there to play football.”

This XFL also won’t be affiliated with wrestling, at least not officially. McMahon has formed Alpha Entertainment to run the league with completely separate management. He recently sold off about $100 million in W.W.E. stock to fund it.

“I am very committed to this, and it’s going to take more than $100 million to do this league,” he said.

McMahon did not further estimate what amount of capital — including media rights fees, ticket sales and sponsorships — would be required to start the league. He said that he was not actively seeking other investors and that the league was already fully funded.

As for other details of the league, only the outline is currently visible. Eight teams — all owned by McMahon’s company — will compete in a 10-game regular season, likely on Sunday afternoons, he said. Four teams will make the playoffs, setting up semifinals and a championship game.

Active rosters will consist of 40 players, McMahon said, promising to pay them enough to play full time and to offer bonuses for wins. McMahon suggested that games would be much shorter and the rules simpler.

But he could not say where the teams would play, or specifically what media outlets might show the games.

McMahon’s plan has a decent shot at succeeding, said David Carter, a professor who runs the University of Southern California’s Sports Business Institute.

“The landscape for sports and entertainment has changed dramatically, I think you could argue, in McMahon’s favor,” Carter said, as digital media companies now compete to stream sports and young people become turned off by the length of games. “I think part of the failure of the XFL the first time around is it didn’t live up to unreasonably lofty expectations, and they lost the expectations game.”

The original XFL was announced just a year before its debut, and McMahon said he deliberately allowed two years between Thursday’s announcement and the league’s restart in 2020, because he believes the league will need more time to secure deals for stadiums and media rights.

He also said that he would consult with football experts to design rules that might make the game safer, a promise that duplicates an effort by the N.F.L.

The old XFL needed to be popular enough to justify broadcasts on NBC, but the advent of companies that stream sports digitally means the XFL might find a deal more suited to its size.

There are “so many more opportunities that were never there before,” said McMahon.

McMahon said he would not run the league day to day or be its public face. He was not supposed to be the public face of the old XFL, either. But on opening night, at Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, he was screaming to the crowd and television audience: “This. Is. The. XFL!”

“Forget what we did with the XFL,” McMahon said, laughing. “That was a long time ago.”

In the late 1990s, when the Clinton White House was under siege amid revelations of the president’s affair with Monica Lewinsky and efforts by Congress to impeach him, it fell on Joe Lockhart, then the White House spokesman, day after day to defend his boss.

But unlike many of his predecessors, he did not just take his marching orders. In countless meetings with the president and his advisers, Lockhart helped shape the message he would convey, and he aggressively pressed it to reporters.

“He was out there, he was on point, he was wearing his cleats,” said Doug Sosnik, an adviser to the president who worked closely with Lockhart at the time. “He’s a tough guy, willing to say what needs to be said, and he’s not worried about what people are saying about him.”

People have a lot to say about him again.

Last year, Lockhart took his pugnacious style to another embattled institution, the National Football League, where the lifelong Democratic operative has found himself in the conservative confines of a league staggered by the reaction to players’ demonstrating during the playing of the national anthem at games, as well as cases involving domestic violence, concussions, player misconduct and an array of other issues.

It is a curious career moment for a man who cut his teeth on the campaign trail and spent part of his post-White House days working for corporate titans like Oracle and Facebook.

But, as Sosnik and others who know him attest, Lockhart is a “wartime general, not a peacetime general” for institutions facing conflict. That’s not to say the troops are always in agreement.

In interviews with about a dozen league and team executives — all of whom refused to speak on the record — several owners seemed pleased with his approach to addressing the anthem controversy, which was to strive for a way for the N.F.L. to appear patriotic while respectful of its players who were kneeling to raise awareness of racism and police brutality toward African-Americans.

But there has been friction. Some owners were upset with a comment by Lockhart a few days after President Trump criticized the league and its players over the kneeling during the anthem. Lockhart told reporters that talking about police brutality is “what real locker room talk is.”

The statement was viewed as a flagrant jab at the president, who had dismissed as “locker room banter” comments he made about forcing himself on women, heard in a video leaked during the campaign.

In a meeting at N.F.L. headquarters the next day, the Dallas Cowboys’ owner, Jerry Jones, and the Washington Redskins’ owner, Dan Snyder, confronted Lockhart to tell him that his remarks would inflame an already fiery issue.

Lockhart confirmed the exchange, which was first reported by ESPN, but said his goal was to react quickly and forcefully, not to craft the perfect rejoinder.

In interviews, several owners, team executives and league officials said that Lockhart had helped amplify the league’s message, even if they questioned whether more could have been done to anticipate problems before they turned into crises. The attacks by the president, though, were so unusual that “you can’t dump this at his feet,” one team executive said of Lockhart.

Lockhart said that he understood why the owners were frustrated, but that his job was to keep pushing the league’s view, and pushing back at those who opposed it.

“That’s why they allow me to sit up there and promote it and defend the narrative that football is a great game, brings great values and it’s a great business,” he said.

The owners’ criticism, he said, “is just part of the job.”

Given the continuing heated debate inside the league on the issue, there is from time to time speculation on whether Lockhart is long for the job. But if there is a movement to oust him, it is a quiet one.

At events like the Super Bowl, Lockhart is often within arm’s reach of the league’s commissioner, Roger Goodell, the pair a study in contrasts. Goodell is tall, athletic and prim. Lockhart is slumped, stocky and tousled. He was so used to the casual dress style in Silicon Valley that he reluctantly resumed wearing neckties when he joined the button-down N.F.L.

Unlike his boss, who has worked more than four decades at the league office, Lockhart has thinner links to football. Growing up in Rockland County, northwest of New York City, he rooted for Joe Namath and the Jets, he said, but colleagues remember him more as a baseball fan, with a picture of the 1986 Mets hanging in his West Wing office. In high school, he played basketball, not football.

On Sundays during the season, if Lockhart is not at a stadium, he typically watches games in his Manhattan apartment with his two young children, whom he had with his second wife, Giovanna Gray, a former aide to Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand of New York. (His first marriage, to the television journalist Laura Logan, ended in divorce.)

His political genes developed early.

Dinnertime conversation growing up was more likely to be about politics and journalism than sports. His parents worked in television, and his father was a longtime producer at NBC News. Every four years, the Lockhart family spent the summer wherever the presidential conventions were being held.

His skills in choppy political waters have been put to the test in the month since Trump lashed out at players who did not stand for the national anthem.

From the start of the crisis in late September, Lockhart used tactics he had honed in Washington. He has pushed the league’s case by reaching out to reporters with statements and near-daily conference calls. Through his bidding, the league has publicized positive things that the players are doing in their communities, promoted the idea that the players and owners are united (despite evidence on the field to the contrary), and tried to avoid addressing the president’s remarks directly.

Some of the tone and messaging of the league’s statements, which Lockhart helped craft, have also been in line with a Democratic progressive, a point some owners, a group that includes several staunch supporters of the president, have not missed. They seemed to seek a “third way,” a famously Clintonian way of compromise.

The league’s initial 87-word statement, issued the day after the president first attacked the league, came after Goodell, Lockhart and other league executives called owners to sound them out. Most N.F.L. statements are bland, but this one was notable for its directness as well as for what it left out.

Goodell’s statement did not explicitly defend the players’ right to protest during the anthem, or even mention racism, the core issue that started the sitting and kneeling demonstrations last season, but it included an unusually strong rebuttal to the president.

“Divisive comments like these demonstrate an unfortunate lack of respect for the N.F.L., our great game and all our players, and a failure to understand the overwhelming force for good our clubs and players represent in our communities,” it said.

Many owners, including several who are donors to Democratic causes, soon followed with similar statements of their own. But other owners issued statements lamenting the league’s getting pulled into political debates.

After weeks of back and forth, and owners flirting with requiring players to stand, fewer players are kneeling during the anthem.

Lockhart has kept his assertive posture. In a talk with reporters, he was asked about the president, who said the N.F.L. should force all players to stand for the anthem. “He’s exercising his freedom to speak, and I’m exercising my freedom not to react,” Lockhart replied dryly.

As the N.F.L. and social media have grown, the league has become a lightning rod for a host of social issues, including bullying and domestic violence, that stretch its capacity to control the narrative.

Lockhart began advising the league as a consultant in 2014, after video surfaced showing the former running back Ray Rice knocking out his fiancée in an elevator.

When Lockhart’s predecessor, Paul Hicks, left the N.F.L. at the end of 2015, he was a logical replacement. Lockhart was interested in returning to New York and, he said, taking on a complex challenge to make the N.F.L. more fleet-footed and assured in responding to controversy. (It is unclear what he is paid, but according to N.F.L. tax filings, Hicks earned $1.5 million in his last year at the league.)

Lockhart, who worked on political campaigns dating to Jimmy Carter’s re-election bid in 1980, has quickly changed the metabolism in the league’s communications office. When The New York Times published an article last year that compared the N.F.L.’s approach to the concussion crisis to tactics used by the tobacco industry, Lockhart issued a long and detailed rebuttal, and said the league would consider taking legal action. (None has been taken.)

Some reporters are not buying what it is being pushed. Jim Trotter, the president of the Pro Football Writers of America, took exception to Lockhart’s assertion that the league had tried to become more transparent. Lockhart’s conference calls were initially not open to all writers, and Goodell and other top executives have not been made available, Trotter said.

“There’s no question they have been more proactive, and that’s part of Joe Lockhart’s approach to it,” Trotter said. “They will respond to things quicker than in the past. Does that mean it’s accurate? No, but it’s their opinion.”

Still, to a certain extent, he is still seen as a political animal, and a few owners, who by and large lean right, have questioned whether a lifelong Democrat like Lockhart (who sold his house in Washington to former President Barack Obama) is the best person to speak on behalf of the league.

Lockhart said his politics had little to do with his job.

“My work is about making sure that people understand what it is we’re doing, why that is and what impact it is having,” he said. “That’s devoid of a political agenda. It doesn’t mean I don’t have political views. But my overriding view when I come to work is, What’s good for the N.F.L.?”