James Phelan, a literary scholar at Ohio State, heard it on sports-talk radio on Tuesday, even if fans and hosts weren’t saying it outright. The nature of the discussion about LeBron James conveyed that no matter what happened next, after he led the Cavaliers to their first N.B.A. championship Sunday night, his legacy had been definitively chiseled.

There was “implicit recognition that narrative culmination has already occurred,” Phelan said. James’s career, as inadvertently reflected by the radio banter, was now the stuff of bildungsroman.

Right, sports fans? Bear with me.

The hero chafes at the comfort he knows, so he leaves home, believing adventure will give him both spiritual fulfillment and a livelihood. He gains knowledge but comes to realize something is missing. He stumbles back home, where he realizes the key to happiness was right under his nose all along.

It is the plot of the coming-of-age story, grist for dozens of classic 19th-century novels (and yet more middling 20th-century movies).

If even those without Cleveland connections found themselves feeling warm and glad when they watched James drop to the floor at Oracle Arena on Sunday night and weep with joy, it might have been because the arc of his endlessly scrutinized career resembles a tried-and-true story, and this was its completion.

The technical term for a novel of growth is “bildungsroman,” a German word (roughly, “novel of development”) for a genre that started with a German book. That book — “Wilhelm Meister’s Apprenticeship,” by Johann Wolfgang von Goethe — describes a well-to-do young man who leaves home and falls in with a troupe of actors, has adventures and finally realizes his destiny lies with a society of the well-to-do that is intimately connected to his origins.

In other words: There’s no place like home.

Throughout his sentimental education, to borrow the title of one of those novels, James has satisfied each of its conventions as if he were checking items off a grocery list.

He grew up in Akron, Ohio, near Cleveland. In the early stage of his career with the Cavaliers, when a Nike billboard in downtown Cleveland declared, “We Are All Witnesses,” his incredible gifts and the opportunity to write a storybook ending left him feeling pressured and stifled.

In 2010, James beat a path for Miami — trailed by burning jerseys, a nasty letter by the owner Dan Gilbert of the Cavaliers, and a book labeling him “The Whore of Akron” — and won two N.B.A. titles with the Heat.

“Without the experiences I had there, I wouldn’t be able to do what I’m doing today,” James wrote in a Sports Illustrated essay upon his return to Cleveland in 2014, confirming the necessity of the Miami part of the tale.

But James clarified that merely returning did not close the loop. “What’s most important for me,” he wrote, “is bringing one trophy back to Northeast Ohio.”

As with every other stage of James’s career, this was achieved as dramatically as possible. On Sunday night, that  vintage chase-down block was reminiscent of his still-present, scampering youth. His brilliant game control — a teammate, Kyrie Irving, compared him to Beethoven composing a symphony — was the signature of so much experience.

Like the hero at the close of every novel of growth, James completely fulfilled society’s expectations as well as his own. No matter what comes next, he will never again have a moment as charged with meaning. That part of his life is over.

It is sublime. It is also bittersweet.

“They’ve found their place in society,” Joseph Slaughter, an English professor at Columbia, said, referring to the heroes of such stories.

“It reaffirms natural ideas of home and society,” he added, “that everybody will find their place.”

The genre, Slaughter said, frequently featured a fatherless man (it was the 1800s, and an autonomous place in society was largely unavailable to women). In “Great Expectations,” Pip searches for the father figure who provided him with his inheritance. Huckleberry Finn flees his drunken father and heads for the Mississippi River. And the stories conclude, Slaughter said, when the hero accepts his lot in society. Wilhelm learns he has a son.

James, as those familiar with his story will recall, was raised by a single mother in Akron, finding father figures in basketball gyms and siblings in his teammates, to whom he always preferred to pass the ball and whom he always kept close. After Sunday night’s game, James reportedly insisted on three portraits: one with his mother, Gloria; one with his coterie of close friends, some of whom he has known since childhood; and one with his wife and their three children — on Father’s Day.

This is real life, of course, and there are complications to James’s neat narrative of bildung, or self-formation. In 2010, James saw that the Heat provided the quickest route to a then-elusive N.B.A. championship. Later, he saw promise in Irving and the Cavaliers.

But if we are at times guilty of projecting these narratives onto James’s career, this was the natural result of his unmatched collection of basketball talents — bullet speed, freight-train size and beautiful mind — and the knowledge that they would not all last.

James has demonstrated that perhaps no vocation lends itself to the coming-of-age yarn better than athlete. The stark lines of sports provide a clearer focus for the universal fact these stories dramatize: that physical ability unavoidably wanes, infinitely magnifying the pressure to achieve one’s goals in a relatively short window of time, which shuts while one is still young.

James could still win another championship or three. He could play for the Knicks, although he probably won’t. He could clinch an N.B.A. finals on Cleveland’s home court. He could lead the Cavaliers to a rubber-match series against the Warriors a year from now.

But what he cannot do again is play quite as poignant a role, in his life or in ours. Having won one for Northeast Ohio, he is now the fully formed person he will be for the rest of his life.

“If he wins more, it’s denouement; it’s not climax,” Phelan said. “It’s epilogue or sequel.”

The bildungsroman, Slaughter said, is “also about the beginnings of middle age — finding that place where you’re comfortable, not excited by the same youthful fantasies.”

For this reason, Slaughter said, with stunning frequency the bildungsroman ends with the hero between 30 and 33. James is 31.

For someone to find his place so completely, in such triumph, is a wonderful thing. And for the rest of us, it is no small consolation to be able to say that we were all witnesses.

Last month, after legislation was signed in North Carolina limiting restroom access for transgender people and forbidding local governments to create their own antidiscrimination ordinances based on sexual orientation, the N.B.A. released an official statement questioning whether it could successfully host the 2017 All-Star Game in Charlotte.

It left many wondering whether the league would move the game elsewhere to join the growing group of companies and individuals speaking out against the law.

On Friday, Commissioner Adam Silver said that he found the legislation problematic but that there was not currently any discussion among the league’s owners to move the game. He did not rule out revisiting that option at a later date.

N.B.A. owners discussed the issue this week in New York over two days of meetings, which also included a vote that will allow teams to put small advertising logos on team jerseys. That step, although it has its critics, was not anywhere near as vexing as the North Carolina issue may prove to be. “I think that the best role for the league to play here is through constructive engagement toward change, not setting deadlines, not making ultimatums, but working with the private sector and the government to effect change in North Carolina,” Silver said.

The situation in North Carolina has already moved various companies and celebrities to take action in protest. PayPal said it would not build an operations center in Charlotte as planned. Deutsche Bank put off plans to create 250 jobs in Raleigh. Bruce Springsteen and Ringo Starr have canceled concerts.

Silver said the N.B.A. was in an unusual situation, given that the league has a franchise in the state, the Charlotte Hornets, which has continued operating as usual over the last month and is about to begin postseason games.

“The issue for us — and maybe this is different than where some of the other businesses find themselves in North Carolina — is that we have a team in North Carolina, and that distinction, for example, between the All-Star Game and the regular operation of a team is not clear to me,” Silver said.

Silver said the league would continue to monitor the situation, noting that besides its own interests, it had to consider the interests of the entertainers who would perform at an All-Star game, the hundreds of vendors who supply services to guests and the thousands of fans who would attend the event.

Silver said the owners were conscious of balancing their business needs and their desire to address social issues.

“There’s a long record in this league of speaking out where we see discrimination,” he said.

Last December, the N.B.A. created a stir when it used its daylong schedule of Christmas Day games as a platform for TV advertisements calling for an end to gun violence. The words “gun control” were never mentioned in the ads, but the organization that paid for them — Everytown for Gun Safety — has been highly visible in battling for stricter gun measures.

At the time, the N.B.A. said there had been little internal debate about working with the Everytown group. In this instance, Silver said, the owners did not take a vote on the All-Star Game issue.

They did vote, however, to allow teams to negotiate jersey sponsorship deals beginning in the 2017-18 season. The N.B.A.’s 30 teams will be responsible for selling their own uniform sponsorships, which, Silver said, could be for as long as three years as part of what he referred to as an “experiment” and a “pilot program.”

Silver said the league was estimating that the program would result in $100 million in additional revenue.

The sponsor patches will measure about 2.5 inches by 2.5 inches and will be placed near the left chest area of the jerseys. The 2017-18 season will also be the league’s first with Nike as its official uniform provider. The N.B.A. does not currently have a manufacturer’s logo on jerseys, but Nike will add its logo, on the right chest area, in 2017.

Sports teams around the world wear sponsor logos on their jerseys. But among American sports leagues, the practice is less common. Major League Soccer has advertising and sponsor logos on its uniforms, as does the W.N.B.A.

Silver acknowledged that some fans were against the addition of sponsor logos to the uniforms, which made a trial-balloon debut in the 2016 All-Star game.

“This is part of building the league,” he said, “and I think if you look at the progression of the league over the years, there has been many sponsorship opportunities that we’ve added, and they’ve been met initially with mixed reviews, and I’d say over time that as we generate more money and invest more money back into the game, improving the game, improving our marketing, improving and growing the footprint of the game, I think the results will be positive.”

He added, “But there’s a reason this is a pilot program. I mean, we listen very closely to our fans, and so we’ll see what the reaction is.”

CLEVELAND — About 92 hours had passed since the city secured its first major professional championship in 52 years, and here we were sitting together at Progressive Field, waiting for the Indians’ game to start and basking in the glow of a scoreboard that read, “Cleveland Cavaliers 2016 NBA Champions.”

My Cleveland sports hero is not LeBron James or Carlos Baerga or Bernie Kosar — although they have all been among my favorite players at some point — but my father, Dave, who raised his only child to be a die-hard fan, no matter how painful that could be at times.

Through the years he has dressed me in jerseys and T-shirts with names like Byner, Daugherty, Thome, Lofton, Couch, Swisher, Hillis and Manziel. Many of them still hang in my closet, some rendered useless by trades or general lack of productivity. That’s just the Cleveland way.

My face has been painted like a Browns helmet and I have worn “dawg tags,” a plastic dog nose and an orange-and-white trucker hat with a furry brown dog wearing a Browns headband on the front. Most children get Goofy hats at Walt Disney World. Not me. I liked it that way.

We went to games at Cleveland Municipal Stadium, Jacobs Field (now Progressive Field), Richfield Coliseum (the previous home of the Cavaliers) and Gund Arena (now Quicken Loans Arena). We even went to Wahoo Winterfest and Fuji Photo Day to get autographs from and pictures with our favorite stars. “Come on, Melissa, don’t be shy! Get in there!” he would yell as I stood sheepishly waiting for Andre Thornton, Pat Tabler, Joe Carter and the like. (In hindsight, this helped me tremendously when I became a sports journalist.)

Opening day was a holiday in the Hoppert household, and there was no better sight than Dad pulling into my grade school’s parking lot, ready to break me free. We went to the 19-inning Indians home opener in 1992, which lasted 6 hours 30 minutes, and sat through it all. That same season, we sneaked into seats behind home plate and my father went sprinting down a portal after a foul ball and came back with a mangled Walkman and a bruised knee. That week, our English teacher assigned us personal narratives: I documented the foul-ball adventure.

We were there for the final Indians game at Municipal Stadium, wearing T-shirts emblazoned with an image of the Chief Wahoo sign from atop Gate D and the words “The Last Hurrah.” We also were there in 1993 for the first game after Bill Belichick, the Browns’ coach at the time, cut Kosar, the homegrown quarterback who wore No. 19. We chanted “Bill Must Go!” with several hundred fans outside the doors to the Browns’ locker room. Belichick went on to lead the New England Patriots to four Super Bowl titles; the Browns have yet to win one. That’s just the Cleveland way.

The day Kosar was cut was not the darkest day in Cleveland sports history; that distinction belongs to Nov. 6, 1995, when the owner Art Modell announced he was moving the Browns to Baltimore. We joked with my father, who makes fuel pumps for jet aircraft and for years was a proud official in the United Auto Workers, that he lost half his wardrobe that day. He did not find that funny.

We were at the Browns’ final game at Municipal Stadium on Dec. 17, 1995. The Browns beat the Bengals, 26-10, but the victory had all the makings of a funeral. Advertisements were blacked out all around the stadium, and fans ripped out rows of seats to take home. In 2001, after the resurrected Browns began play at a new stadium, my father shielded me from plastic beer bottles being hurled onto the field from fans who were incensed by officials’ reviewing a play after another had already been run. The episode is now known as Bottlegate.

There were some happy times. From June 12, 1995, to April 4, 2001, the Indians sold out 455 consecutive home games, setting a major league record that was later broken by the Boston Red Sox. From 1995 to 1997, I was an usher at the ballpark and worked two World Series and an All-Star Game. By the 1997 playoffs, I was a freshman at Ohio State and would drive two and a half hours from Columbus to Cleveland to work the home games before driving right back. There was no way I was going to miss out on the park’s electric atmosphere.

I watched Game 7 from a sports bar in Columbus and could barely believe it when the Indians went into the ninth inning with a 2-1 lead against the Florida Marlins. But Jose Mesa allowed the Marlins to tie the score, and Edgar Renteria drove in the winning run in the 11th. My father watched the meltdown from his couch in Euclid, Ohio, and he called in sick and sat in the dark for days afterward, replaying it in his mind. That’s just the Cleveland way.

Then the Cavaliers secured the No. 1 overall pick in the 2003 draft and selected LeBron James, who had Clevelanders dreaming of a championship while he was slamming down dunks at St. Vincent-St. Mary High School in nearby Akron. The Chosen One, as they called him, was poised to lead us to the holy grail, but my father knew better. There were signs, he said, that James did not live and die with Cleveland — at least not yet. First, James wore a Yankees cap to an Indians division series game against the Yankees in 2007. A year later, James stood on the Cowboys’ sideline at Browns Stadium. As much as this irked my father, James was forgiven as long as he was wearing the wine and gold. Enter ESPN and “The Decision,” which stung worse than the Drive, the Fumble, the Shot and all the other lowlights because it was a man-made disaster.

My father continued to show his support for the Cavaliers, watching on TV and going to games, even as James led the Miami Heat to two titles. Then came July 11, 2014, when James, a free agent, announced in an online love letter to the city that he was coming home. For as much as it stung when James left, all was forgotten in the time it took to scroll to the bottom. But there was still one tough critic to convert — my father.

He left a voice mail message the next morning, and I knew right away that he, too, was smitten with James. I saved it and listened to it again this week: “We went to the Indians’ game last night. And I tell you, it was so much fun, electric. The whole downtown is just going crazy.” He added, citing the awarding of the Republican National Convention and the arrivals of Browns quarterback Johnny Manziel, Indians Manager Terry Francona and James, “So many good things are happening.”

He continued: “For a guy like me, that’s lived here all my life, to be the center of the sports world, it’s just amazing. Cleveland’s on the move. No more mistake on the lake, the river’s burning; that happened in the ‘60s, you know what I mean. The feeling’s surreal.”

He was wrong about Manziel’s resurrecting the Browns, but he was right about the rest. As we sat behind home plate Wednesday, the Indians were in first place in the American League Central. And on Sunday, James and the Cavaliers defeated the Golden State Warriors, 93-89, to become the first team to rally from a three-games-to-one deficit to win the N.B.A. finals — on Father’s Day.

Even before the game, something unusual was swirling in the air around Cleveland: hope. I was not going to miss the celebration should the sports gods finally decide to award a title to our blue-collar city. After Game 7, I met up with a former usher and we celebrated downtown. Still, one thing was missing, and so I texted my father: “Dad, I love you! I wish you were here. It’s INSANE.”

Now 61, he wrote from the comfort of his Barcalounger: “Words can’t describe how I feel. Surreal.”

In an instant, the Cleveland way had been transformed. We were winners now, and there was nothing left to do but call in sick and enjoy it.