The three U.C.L.A. men’s basketball players who were entangled in an international incident in China that compelled President Trump to get involved admitted on Wednesday that they had shoplifted in Hangzhou. They were suspended from the team indefinitely.

“They will have to earn their way back,” Coach Steve Alford said of LiAngelo Ball, Cody Riley and Jalen Hill.

The players, who returned to the United States on Tuesday after President Trump interceded with President Xi Jinping of China, apologized for their actions at a news conference.

Ball, the highest-profile player involved, said: “I’d like to start off by saying sorry for stealing from the stores in China. I’m a young man, but it’s not an excuse for making a really stupid decision.”

The team said the players had stolen from three stores, not just one as originally reported.

Earlier Wednesday, President Trump tweeted about his intervention, saying: “Do you think the three UCLA Basketball Players will say thank you President Trump? They were headed for 10 years in jail!”

The players did thank Trump, among many others.

“To President Trump and the United States government, thank you for taking time to intervene on our behalf,” Riley said.

The players also thanked the Chinese police for treating them with respect.

“These are good young men who exercised an inexcusable lapse of judgment,” Alford said.

No questions were taken after the news conference.

The news conference was the first time players or staff members at U.C.L.A. had commented significantly on last week’s incident. The university had been mostly closed-lipped on the matter while the players were detained. Alford said that the team had been advised that speaking about it could have jeopardized the players returning home.

The players were arrested on Nov. 8, accused of stealing designer sunglasses from a Louis Vuitton store in Hangzhou. The team was in the country to play an exhibition against Georgia Tech. Playing without the three freshmen, U.C.L.A. won, 63-60, in Shanghai on Friday.

The players were detained at their hotel in Hangzhou for most of the week as their teammates flew home. On Tuesday, the three players were allowed to board a flight back to California.

“An awful lot of American kids don’t realize that the kinds of things that in United States society we tolerate with a slap on the wrist, a lot of countries they take very seriously,” John F. Kelly, the president’s chief of staff, said on Tuesday.

“Our president said to Xi, ‘Do you know anything about these knuckleheads that got caught allegedly stealing?’ ” Kelly said.

In China, where the justice system has a high conviction rate, theft can normally bring prison time, perhaps years.

Ball is part of a family that has its own reality show on Facebook, “Ball in the Family.” One brother, Lonzo, plays for the Los Angeles Lakers, and another, LaMelo, is a high schooler who has committed to play at U.C.L.A. Their father, LaVar, has become a public figure as well, and has started a sports-apparel company, Big Baller Brand.

The U.C.L.A. team’s trip to China was in part a way to raise the profile of the university and the Pac-12 Conference in that country, possibly attracting students who have well-to-do parents and who want to study abroad. Many American universities in recent years have increasingly relied on tuition payments from foreign students.

Terrance Ferguson, a recent graduate of a charter school in Dallas, begins many days by taking in the view of Gulf St. Vincent from his three-story townhouse in Adelaide, Australia. He sometimes sees dolphins swimming in the waters below, which he considers “pretty cool.” He also likes to check in with peers back home who are preparing for classes as college freshmen.

“A lot of them are like, ‘Man, I should have done what you did,’” Ferguson said.

What he did was become a professional basketball player at 18 — at a time when he had expected to be playing for the University of Arizona — despite being too young for the N.B.A. draft. Not long after announcing his decision in a first-person essay in The Players’ Tribune in June, Ferguson packed up and joined the Adelaide 36ers of Australia’s National Basketball League.

By playing for the 36ers, Ferguson, a 6-foot-7 guard, receives housing, a car and compensation in the mid-six figures (because of various marketing arrangements) as he prepares for the N.B.A. draft next June, when he will meet the league’s age requirements. A likely first-round pick, he also has endorsement deals with Under Armour and PSD Underwear. He was excited about a coming photo shoot.

“I won’t have to pay for underwear ever again!” he said during a recent telephone interview.

Ferguson, of course, is not the first high-profile American teenager to head overseas rather than take the one-and-done route to the N.B.A.: a one-year pit stop at a big-time college program, then on to the draft. But he is believed to be the first to have been actively recruited by a team from Australia, a country that could lure more young stars away from the college game and emerge as the incubator of choice for N.B.A. prospects.

This all began in April, when Ferguson, a McDonald’s all-American, played in the Nike Hoop Summit in Portland, Ore. After the game, he said, his mother, Rachelle Holdman, delivered some unexpected news: A representative from an Australian team wanted to meet with them over dinner.

At the time, neither Ferguson nor his mother knew that Australia even had a professional league. But over breadsticks at Olive Garden, Ferguson learned about the 36ers and about the potential benefits of spending a season, and earning a paycheck, overseas.

Since 2006, the N.B.A. draft rules have required players to be 19 and at least one year removed from high school. Those rules ended the era of stars like Kobe Bryant, LeBron James and Kevin Garnett — as well as a few notable busts — who bypassed college for the N.B.A. The age rule is unlikely to change when the league finalizes its new collective bargaining agreement with the players’ union.

Thus, the quandary for high-caliber players like Ferguson: a year of college or a season abroad? To some, the choice is simple.

“No businessman would sit out a year of earning,” said Joey Wright, the coach of the 36ers. “So why would a basketball player? The N.C.A.A. will preach the value of a college education. Well, if you want an education, go play in the N.B.A. and then study in the off-season. You can pay for it yourself.”

As Ferguson mulled his decision, he reached out to Emmanuel Mudiay, a friend and former teammate who had opted to play in China before the Denver Nuggets made him the No. 7 overall selection in the 2015 draft. Ferguson said that Mudiay expressed some discomfort about his experience in China — most of it related to the language barrier.

“He had no one to talk to,” Ferguson said, “especially on his down days.”

That, in part, was why Australia had been so appealing to Ferguson — and why the National Basketball League could attract more young American players.

“He had more than just this opportunity to go overseas, but this was just the most logical because of the language and the culture not being so different,” said Holdman, who moved to Adelaide to be with her son until the season ends in February.

“It’s just so new that I think a lot of kids don’t know about this option,” she said. “But I’m already hearing from other parents.”

Mudiay’s decision to sign with the Guangdong Southern Tigers had stemmed partly from accreditation concerns related to his high school, Prime Prep Academy, the now-shuttered Dallas-area charter school founded by the former N.F.L. star Deion Sanders. Ferguson had also attended Prime Prep, but transferred to Advanced Preparatory International, another charter school in Dallas that has drawn similar scrutiny from the N.C.A.A.

Reports circulated in the spring that Ferguson’s eligibility at Arizona was in question, but Ferguson said he would have been able to play as a freshman. Holdman said that her son had largely been home-schooled and that he had taken only electives at Advanced Preparatory International, although it issued him a diploma.

In the end, none of that mattered. Ferguson did not seem to regret missing out on college, and he added his voice to a growing chorus of critics who see the N.C.A.A. as a bastion of obsolete concepts of amateurism.

“The schools make a lot from you,” Ferguson said. “The coaches make a lot from you. But you’re really getting nothing from it — just the basketball experience, the college experience. Education is obviously important. But what are you really getting out of it if you only go for one year?”

Ferguson’s agent, Happy Walters of Catalyst Sports and Media, said the one-and-done route made little sense for the handful of players each year who are skilled enough to make a quick transition to the N.B.A.

“If a kid can start making 500 grand at age 18, that’s a year that you can’t get back if you decide to go to school,” Walters said. “For Terrance, he’s practicing and developing and taking advantages of opportunities that he wouldn’t have otherwise gotten in college.”

Wright, the Adelaide coach, said Ferguson’s maturity had impressed him. He works hard. He does not complain.

Wright often summons Ferguson to the gym for late-night workouts. “And I know Terrance will show up,” he said.

Ferguson was averaging 7.3 points per game off the bench as of Friday. His production may sound modest, but his coaches have been pleased with his progress. He is, after all, playing against grown men, and the 36ers did not sign him with the expectation that he would dominate the league. Instead, they hoped that he would be a consistent contributor, create some buzz and cement Adelaide as a destination for other American players with similar goals.

“To have a guy like that here, our fans can always say that he was a 36er when he’s off playing in the N.B.A.,” Wright said. “That’s big for people here. It connects them to the N.B.A., and it’s important for our marketing. Our logo was on ESPN. That’s not going to happen very often.”

Wright said he had already been approached by rival teams wanting to know how the 36ers had landed Ferguson.

“I told them, ‘No, I ain’t doing that,” said Wright, a former player at the University of Texas. “They said, ‘What do you mean?’ And I was like, ‘We ain’t that close!’”

For the 36ers, signing a player like Ferguson became feasible only when the National Basketball League made a significant rule change ahead of this season, increasing the permitted number of foreign-born players, or “imports,” on each team from two to three.

In past seasons, Wright needed to know that his two imports could be effective players right from the start — seasoned professionals, in other words. It would have been too much to expect an 18-year-old, even one as talented as Ferguson, to step in and assume that sort of role.

But being allowed a third import allowed Wright to gamble on youth.

The idea, Wright said, was proposed to him by Raheim Brown, a friend who is in the process of helping to start the Dream Basketball Academy, an Adelaide-based training center that Brown hopes will become a destination for promising players with N.B.A. ambitions.

Brown showed Wright some film of Ferguson, and Wright thought Ferguson’s skill set, his shooting ability in particular, translated well to the National Basketball League.

Ferguson, whose mother has dinner waiting for him when he gets home from practice, said that he had been enjoying life as a foreigner.

“It’s just the accent that kills me,” he said.

Another challenge has been learning (and remembering) to drive on the left side of the road.

“It’s scary every time, man,” he said. “I feel like my life’s in danger.”

Ferguson, who likes to dance in the locker room before games, is a source of near-constant amusement to teammates. But he is still susceptible to the missteps of youth. When the 36ers took a trip to Darwin on a scorching day not long ago, Ferguson forgot to drink water the entire afternoon.

“He figured out what dehydration was,” Wright said.

Joe Tertzakian, the general manager of operations for the 36ers, said executives from the Chicago Bulls, the Minnesota Timberwolves and the Nuggets had already visited Adelaide to see Ferguson. Wright said six scouts had attended a recent practice, though Ferguson did not seem to notice.

“The kid played exactly like he did the day before and then played that way the day after when they weren’t there,” he said. “I was a college senior when the scouts came to see me, and I was nervous as hell. So for him to be completely the same person, there is something special with this kid.”

Brown, whose academy supplements Ferguson’s training and development, said he was keeping tabs on four American high school seniors as potential targets for next season.

For now, the 36ers will enjoy their time with Ferguson — and continue to reap the benefits even after he returns home.

“We like to claim anything we can,” Tertzakian said. “So he’s always going to be Australian, as far as we’re concerned.”

LEXINGTON, Ky. — John Calipari, residue from that morning’s Ash Wednesday service smudged on his forehead, unbound his iPad’s leather case and showed a visiting reporter its gleaming sky-blue desktop.

“It’s never off,” he said. “Because I don’t know how to turn it off.”

Calipari, 58, Kentucky’s successful and controversial basketball coach, does not have a computer in his office overlooking the Wildcats’ practice gym. He does not know how to post Facebook updates or messages on Twitter. He does not, he said, even use email.

Yet Calipari, whose résumé at Kentucky includes four Final Fours, a national championship and a No. 2 seed in this year’s N.C.A.A.   tournament, is the driving force behind several powerful media platforms — including a Twitter account with more than a million followers, a website and a popular weekly podcast. Collectively, these serve as a permanent branding campaign, a public record of his thoughts and actions, and a rapid-response mechanism for one of the sports world’s most in-demand and polarizing personalities.

“We’re going to give out our message,” Calipari said this month, “but they’re also going to be able to see who I am, who my friends are, what I do, what I read — and it’s not filtered through anybody.”

Calipari has long sought to connect directly with fans and showcase his boisterous personality, said David R. Scott, the co-author of Calipari’s 2009 book, “Bounce Back,” and the founding editor of Calipari’s website, CoachCal.com. In an earlier era, Scott said, those connections were forged in small-group interactions; he recalled that Calipari, while coaching at the University of Massachusetts, delivered pizza to students waiting in line before games.

New technology has allowed Calipari to do the same type of thing, only on a much grander scale.

“His major was marketing,” said Scott, now a senior director in communications at ESPN, “and he’s used it every day of his life.”

The internet and social media have eliminated the costs of printing and distribution, making anyone a potential publisher. From political campaigns to corporations to celebrities, organizations or individuals that in the past depended on traditional media outlets for their messaging now communicate directly with voters, consumers and fans.

This autonomy is especially crucial for Calipari, who stands atop perhaps the most obsessed-over college sports program this side of Alabama football; who seeks a prominent public profile, at least partly to aid the all-important endeavor of recruiting; and who in the past, he acknowledges, has been fitted with the “black hat.”

Notoriety and negative coverage have long trailed Calipari, a Hall of Fame coach known for his brash personality and disruptive methods, along with his teams’ consistent success. The N.C.A.A. vacated his Final Four runs with two previous teams, UMass and Memphis, and it takes only a few keystrokes to find someone criticizing his embrace of the so-called “one-and-done” strategy — recruiting talented prospects who expressly aspire to enter the N.B.A. after a single season in college.

While in the past, Calipari said, he could not effectively combat reports or columns that cast him or his team in a bad light, that is no longer true.

“In the old days, you had to wait,” said Calipari, describing how he would respond to slights or what he viewed as misinformation earlier in his career. “You can get on a day later on the radio, but it’s too late. It’s already singed in their mind.”

Today — with the aid of full-time staff members in Kentucky’s sports information and image operations, who transcribe and publish the thoughts and musings of the tech-illiterate coach — things are different. “Now,” he said, “I can respond in 30 seconds.”

Calipari does not eschew traditional media availabilities, and even cooperated on a forthcoming ESPN documentary about his career. But his own megaphone is a big one. Calipari’s Twitter account has three times as many followers as the main one for Kentucky’s basketball program. More than 500,000 people follow his Facebook feed, and a quarter-million track his posts on Instagram.

Then there is CoachCal.com. It is not — like some other coach websites — a sleepy venue for occasional videos and links to articles posted elsewhere. Instead, it is an up-to-the-minute source for news, with its own de facto beat writer, Metz Camfield, and a certain, if limited, amount of exclusive access. (While the site is branded with Calipari’s image, it is owned by JMI Sports, Kentucky’s multimedia rights holder.) The site also has a personal blog with Calipari’s reflections on his team’s progress, celebrations of mentors and, of course, rebuttals to criticism.

The newest addition to Calipari Inc. is Cal Cast — Calipari’s podcast, a breakout by a major active coach. After only three months and 15 episodes, it has more than a million listens. Calipari has hosted fellow coaches, businessmen, basketball commentators and his good friend Drake. (His dream guest is another clamorous, technologically challenged one-man media machine; according to Calipari, President Trump told a journalist whom Calipari declined to identify that he was open to appearing on the program.)

All of these endeavors push a daily dose of the gospel according to Calipari. Wondering whether he truly cares about his players? A recent Instagram photograph showed the stat sheet that Calipari said he receives daily, detailing how his alumni are faring in the N.B.A. Want to know his philosophy? A “Recruiting Manifesto” emphasized Calipari’s “players-first” approach (foreshadowing “Players First,” one of two books Calipari has written with the writer Michael Sokolove in the last three years). Skeptical that he is following N.C.A.A. rules? A state-of-the-program rundown last year reminded readers that Calipari’s squads have among the highest graduation success rates of top teams.

A case study in how Calipari can bypass the traditional news media came amid the firestorm that erupted after a 2014 Yahoo report that Duke Coach Mike Krzyzewski had used his perch as U.S.A. Basketball’s head coach to recruit high school prospects. Syracuse Coach Jim Boeheim, then a Team U.S.A. assistant, said in response that Calipari had complained about the arrangement and added that Calipari’s protests seemed disingenuous since he had coached the Dominican Republic’s team — a job that might have helped secure the commitment of the star prospect Karl-Anthony Towns.

One day after Boeheim’s comments ran on Syracuse.com, Calipari, after appearing to respond via a snarky Twitter post, took to CoachCal.com to tell the world that he had called Boeheim (“We are friends”); to praise Krzyzewski’s stewardship of U.S.A. Basketball; and to say he did not “begrudge” any potential recruiting advantage.

Years later, Krzyzewski appeared as the guest on Cal Cast’s second episode. Calipari gushed about Krzyzewski’s triumphs with the national team, and the coaches bonded over their Catholic-influenced boyhoods and their affinity for legendary coaches. “Everybody’s going to be stunned,” Calipari said, “that we just talked for 30 minutes.”

Was it benign sincerity? Did Calipari have ulterior motives for staying on the good sides of U.S.A. Basketball and Krzyzewski? Either or both might be true — this month, U.S.A. Basketball announced that Calipari would coach the 19-and-under national team. But Calipari’s public stance was probably delivered more cleanly and persuasively than it would have been even through a sit-down with a friendly reporter.

“It enables him to put his version of the story out exactly the way he wants to, as sanitized or unfiltered as he cares to,” said Bill Grueskin, a Columbia Journalism School professor.

Calipari’s credibility is buttressed by all the things he publishes that have no obvious utility, whether it is a tribute to his family’s late German shepherd or CoachCal.com’s stream of updates on the team, written mostly by Camfield, a former Kentucky journalism major. Even the sponsor announcements Calipari reads during Cal Cast are disarmingly genuine, most of all the Blue Apron spots in which Calipari’s wife, Ellen, describes some delicious meal she has just cooked for her husband.

Jerry Tipton, the longtime Lexington Herald-Leader basketball beat reporter, said that Calipari’s platforms had an unavoidable bias. “Cal talks about ‘no filters,’ which is fine,” Tipton said, “except it has the biggest filter of all: Coach Cal.”

But Calipari disputed this characterization. “It isn’t filter,” he said. “It’s transparent.”

“I’m not perfect, I’m a sinner — that’s why I’ve got my ash on my head,” Calipari said. But, he continued, “there were so many coaches in the old days that were painted with black hats, and there were guys painted with white hats that should have had black hats on.”

“I’m not trying to write my legacy — someone else will write my legacy,” he added. “But what I am is, I’m transparent, and you are not writing my legacy.”