New York University does not have much of an athletic program. But 70 years ago, it ran a profitable macaroni company, leading indirectly to a decision by Congress that college sports — if not a college-owned noodle business — should be exempt from taxation.

Today, as the hugely lucrative football bowl season wraps up, colleges fear that the new tax law signed by President Trump could derail their gravy train — two provisions target coaches’ high salaries and booster donations tied to ticket purchases. But they need not worry much.

There are no plans to start taxing television revenue and corporate sponsorships, two of the biggest income streams, which together transformed intercollegiate athletics into a multibillion-dollar business. Even with the legislative changes, collegiate sports remain largely tax exempt, the beneficiary of a public subsidy that is increasingly difficult to defend.

The corrosive culture of money in big-time college sports — more than $8 billion a year among the National Collegiate Athletic Association’s Division I sports programs — was painfully obvious recently with the indictments of college coaches and an Adidas executive charged with paying bribes to recruit basketball players and steer them to agents.

It was left to federal prosecutors to issue a statement condemning the “criminal influence of money on coaches and student-athletes.”

The tax-exempt nature of college sports is not the cause of these problems. Rather, it is rocket fuel for an engine that has escaped the gravitational pull of common sense and decency.

To understand how this is possible, consider the balance sheet of the Atlantic Coast Conference, home of the 2017 national champions in football, Clemson, and men’s basketball, North Carolina. Its corporate sponsors include Toyota, Gatorade and Geico. When the conference filed its annual tax return for 2015, it reported about a quarter-billion dollars from broadcasting games for its member universities, as well as $147 million in other sports-related revenue. Its commissioner earned $2.9 million. The A.C.C. was a huge commercial success with income that would normally generate a huge tax bill.

But no taxes were owed. As the conference explained in its filing with the Internal Revenue Service, the Atlantic Coast and its member schools are nonprofit charitable organizations that place an emphasis on “academic excellence.”

“The Atlantic Coast Conference,” it said, “seeks to maximize the educational and athletic opportunities of its student-athletes, while enriching their quality of life.”

The magic word here is “educational.” Student-athletes have always been considered unpaid amateurs engaging in extracurricular activities rather than profitable professions. So college sports is deemed part of the educational mission of schools and exempt from income taxes.

There are specific and contentious interpretations of law that prop up this assumption in the modern era. But they have weakened as big-time college sports has taken on the trappings of a profit-driven business far removed from the cloistered groves of academe. It is only through decades of aggressive lobbying and legal battles that universities have managed to avoid income taxes on billions of dollars from broadcast rights, sponsorships and donations from boosters.

The seminal moment came in response to an attempt by N.Y.U. to extend its tax-exempt status to profits generated by C. F. Mueller Company, a pasta maker that had been donated to its law school in 1947. Congress took notice and eventually enacted the unrelated business income tax to capture revenue considered ancillary to a nonprofit organization’s mission. Sensing the threat, the N.C.A.A. pressed lawmakers to make sure that the new tax would not apply to money from school sports programs. Accordingly, congressional committee reports declared that “athletic activities of schools are substantially related to their educational functions,” even citing the supposed educational benefits of football and basketball.

So an escape hatch was opened for college sports. Over the years, the I.R.S. has periodically tried to close it. In the late 1970s, the agency looked at the relatively new stream of television revenue from college games and considered treating it as taxable unrelated business income. This ignited a spirited lobbying campaign by colleges and the N.C.A.A. until the I.R.S. retreated, declaring that selling tickets to fans who go to the school stadium was not all that different from broadcasting games to a television audience.

Clearly the I.R.S. did not foresee the commercialized powerhouse that college sports would become, driven by national television viewership. For example, in the Big East Conference’s first year of operation in 1979, it earned $305,000 for the right to broadcast all of its games; three decades later, ESPN would offer more than $100 million for those rights.

Other attempts to tax college sports profits have been mostly rejected by lawmakers. In the 1990s, Congress did an end run around the I.R.S. and decreed that corporate sponsorships did not amount to advertising, which could be subject to the unrelated business income tax. It was not until the recently approved Republican tax plan that lawmakers reversed course, eliminating a partial deduction for booster donations tied to the sale of game tickets and imposing an excise tax on college employee salaries exceeding $1 million. Over all, however, most athletics revenue continues to flow tax-free.

That means the college sports machine keeps cranking out expensive entertainment, and the scandals that go with it, while sheltered by the scholastic equivalent of a Cayman Islands tax dodge. If President Trump wants to repatriate and tax corporate profits stashed offshore, he might also consider the untaxed billions hiding in plain sight on campuses right here at home.

It is difficult to age gracefully. Ask anyone approaching 40, or well past it. Most of us get to grapple with that milestone before a limited and understanding audience. Professional athletes, of course, are not granted that luxury, as New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady is reminding us.

Brady, 40, has won five Super Bowls. He has been the most valuable player in four of them, and recently he was selected to his 13th Pro Bowl. But throughout another dominant N.F.L. season, which continues Saturday night with a divisional round playoff game against the Tennessee Titans, Brady has taken the poet Dylan Thomas to heart and refused to go gentle into that good night.

With the help of a book, a controversial side business and a new documentary series — coming soon to a smartphone near you — his midlife crisis is unfolding before packed stadiums, millions of television viewers and social media followers, and an eager news media horde.

Brady’s book, “The TB12 Method: How to Achieve a Lifetime of Sustained Peak Performance,” and his lifestyle website, tb12sports.com, purportedly offer inside looks at how Brady has done what he has done — a blend of so-called “pliability” exercises, nutritional bars, supplements and lots of water. The new documentary series, which will drop later this month via Facebook’s mobile video platform, says right there in its title what it will address: “Tom vs. Time.”

Brady going all Gwyneth Paltrow and Goop-y might be considered endearing to some, even if it is not wholly original. After all, his fans in New England and elsewhere long ago forgave his fashionably questionable loyalty to the Uggs that he endorses, and they never believed that “Deflategate” was anything but a leaguewide conspiracy to derail, and tarnish forever, the Patriots juggernaut. (Don’t even ask about “Spygate.”)

Still, something just feels different about the latest Patriots-Brady chatter, which has produced consternation and uproar in Patriots Nation and the N.F.L. at large.

Between Brady’s embrace of the New Age and news reports out of Foxborough, Mass., that his business partner and best friend, Alex Guerrero, might have become a divisive enough figure to be banished from the team’s training facilities and sideline, Patriots Kremlinologists have been in a tizzy about whether Brady and Coach Bill Belichick are feuding — and whether that might imperil one of the N.F.L.’s greatest dynasties.

Last week, ESPN reported that Brady first froze out, then forced the midseason trade of, his backup and possible heir apparent, Jimmy Garoppolo, to the San Francisco 49ers. The Patriots faithful, of course, circled their wagons around their hero and cried once again, yes, fake news.

Yet on WEEI’s “Kirk & Callahan” radio show this week, Brady did not exactly dismiss reports that all was not well in the New England organization.

“Everyone has different truths,” he said. “When you talk about the way I see things, the way you guys see things, the way the writer may see things, the way Coach Belichick may see things, everyone has different truths based on their perspectives. I feel like I go about my business like I have every year, and again, I like to speak for myself, because that’s how — I don’t want to speak on someone else’s behalf or what their experiences are. I try to do the best I can do, like I’ve always done.”

Yet regardless of whether he plans to be playing football for another weekend, another year or even another decade, Brady’s going about his business also means building a business for his life after football. He’s got “merch” to sell on his site: supplements, snack bars, apps and gear. He has a brand to build — one that will carry him well past the end of his playing career — and the social media tools to brandish his newfound mysticism.

“Fate whispers to the warrior, ‘You cannot withstand the storm.’ The warrior whispers back, ‘I am the storm.’ — Unknown” was the cryptic message that greeted Brady’s 3.3 million Instagram followers one day this week.

In “Tom vs. Time,” Brady is not only burnishing his own legend, however; he is also aligning himself with one of the world’s foremost tech giants to spread his gospel.

“I do want to know the whys in life,” Brady said in one of five episodes screened by the New York Times reporter Mark Leibovich. “I do want to know why we’re here, where we’re going; trying to find that deeper purpose. To live it, through sports in a very authentic way, makes so much sense to me.”

It is unlikely Tony Robbins is hearing footsteps.

But after pointing out a few of the holes in the episodes that he watched — Belichick is almost entirely absent, and the Garoppolo and Guerrero affairs do not get a single mention — Leibovich gave the series a thumbs up as “pure candy for football geeks, celebrity lifestyle voyeurs and pretty much any N.F.L. enthusiast curious about one of sports’ more enigmatic superstars.”

Give it to Brady. This is a pretty original stab at a third act. Don’t go gentle. Rage, rage all you want. But I’m taking time, and giving Tom the points.

ESPN executives had some nervous moments during halftime of Monday night’s college football national championship. It appeared that a Georgia blowout, which looked likely, might lead fans to turn the game off.

They needn’t have worried. The network announced Tuesday that Alabama’s thrilling 26-23 comeback was watched by 28.4 million people; 27.4 million on the flagship channel, and another 1 million on ESPN2 and ESPNU as part of its “MegaCast” production. Last year’s game was watched on ESPN by 24.4 million viewers, with 25.7 million watching in 2016. Monday’s contest was the fifth-highest-rated college football game ESPN has ever broadcast, and second-highest if the MegaCast is factored in, behind only Ohio State’s victory over Oregon in the 2015 championship game in the inaugural College Football Playoff.

The game capped a hugely successful college football bowl season for ESPN, as viewership was up for both its New Year’s Day slate of high-profile games and its entire 35-bowl-game season.

“When I look across the landscape of sports properties, it’s hard to argue that, from beginning to end, anything is as compelling as college football,” Burke Magnus, an ESPN executive, said before the game.

For the college football playoffs especially, however, scheduling heavily affects viewership. Part of the reason ESPN’s overall bowl ratings are up involves timing: This year both semifinals were played on New Year’s Day, and in the last playoff the semifinals occurred on New Year’s Eve.

“This was the first year really that the effort we put in with the commissioners to smooth out the N.Y.E. issue manifested itself in full bloom,” said Magnus, referring to ESPN’s successful effort to move some games off Dec. 31.

ESPN should have another good year before scheduling difficulties return. In 2020 the national championship game will not be played until Jan. 13, 16 days after the semifinals, which could cause interest to wane. And in 2021-22 and 2022-23 the semifinals return to New Year’s Eve.

ESPN’s ratings success with college football contrasts mightily with trends for the N.F.L., where ratings across all networks were down by 10 percent from last year. Things were only slightly better at ESPN, as its “Monday Night Football” viewership was down by only about 6 percent from last year.

Along with a strong slate of upcoming N.B.A. games — national N.B.A. ratings are up a whopping 18 percent so far this season — ESPN’s college football success comes at a crucial time for the company. It is currently being led by an interim president, after John Skipper unexpectedly resigned from the position last month, citing a substance addiction, and its flagship channel now reaches only 87 million homes, down from 100 million six years ago.

By appearances anyway, the N.F.L. was one big family two weeks ago. After President Trump urged owners to fire players who did not stand for the national anthem, everyone from Commissioner Roger Goodell to the 32 team owners to the players and coaches locked arms, in many cases literally, in defiance and unity.

That unanimity has all but vanished. As the president continues to harangue the league over the anthem, and a number of fans across the country express displeasure with the handful of players who continue to kneel during the anthem, a growing pool of owners is trying to defuse the politically charged issue, even if it means confronting the players the owners previously sympathized with.

One of the most powerful owners in the league is now speaking openly about benching players  who do not stand for the anthem, and Goodell, who said previously that players had a right to voice their opinions, is siding with the owners opposed to letting the players demonstrate. The owners plan to meet next week to establish what to do about the anthem gestures.

“Like many of our fans, we believe that everyone should stand for the national anthem,” Goodell said in a letter sent to owners on Tuesday.

He added that the league cared about the issues the players are trying to highlight, including social injustice and police brutality toward African-Americans. But he said that “the controversy over the anthem is a barrier to having honest conversations and making real progress on the underlying issues.”

The league might find resistance from players for any new directive on the anthem, setting the course for more public tension.

Martellus Bennett, a tight end for the Green Bay Packers, was quick to question the commissioner’s motives:

Goodell’s letter was sent two days after the Dallas Cowboys’ owner Jerry Jones — a leader among owners, a supporter of the president and never one to bite his tongue — said in no uncertain terms that he would bench any players who “disrespect the flag.”

“If we are disrespecting the flag, then we won’t play. Period,” Jones told The Dallas Morning News.

On Twitter, the president congratulated Jones for his stance.

Jones may be the most strident owner on this issue, but he is far from alone.

The Miami Dolphins owner Stephen M. Ross, who had backed the players’ right to protest and even set up a nonprofit group last year to foster race relations, appears to be changing his stance. He told The Miami Herald that while many players insist their protests are about raising awareness of racial injustice, the president has “changed that whole paradigm of what protest is” by turning it into a statement on the flag and support of the military.

Put another way, Ross is telling his players that they are hurting their cause by not standing for the anthem.

This about-face should not be shocking.

First and foremost, the owners, particularly those who have paid hundreds of millions of dollars for their teams, want to make money. From their point of view, anything that draws attention from the game, whether it is bullying in the locker room, domestic violence, or sitting or kneeling during the anthem, could put the television networks that broadcast the games and the league’s corporate sponsors in an awkward spot.

“At this moment, Jerry Jones has made a business decision,” said Frank Zaccanelli, a former part owner of the Dallas Mavericks who knows Jones well. “He’s in Dallas, Texas, and owns America’s Team. If any business took a 10 to 12 percent business hit, red lights would be going off. If you’ve got 50 percent of your people against you, you are going to have drastic changes. If this continues down this road, you’ll see a deterioration that will be significant.”

The owners, however, also want to avoid a showdown with the players’ union, and even some of their best players. After Jones threw down the gauntlet on Sunday, the N.F.L. Players Association issued a statement defending its members’ right to free expression.

“We should not stifle these discussions and cannot allow our rights to become subservient to the very opinions our Constitution protects,” the union said.

On Tuesday, Jones doubled down on his views during his radio show on KRLD-FM (105.3 The Fan). By threatening to bench players, Jones said his goal was to remove the Cowboys from the debate over whether players should or should not stand for the anthem.

“I don’t want there to be any misunderstanding as to where I want the personnel of the Cowboys to be when we’re at the No. 1 workplace we have, which is the field and the sideline on game day,” Jones said. “I want to do everybody a service, as I should in leading the team, and let’s be really clear about what our expectations are.”

The president’s tweets aside, the issue is in some ways taking care of itself. Hundreds of other players who protested two weeks ago, apparently more piqued at a president telling them what to do than the underlying causes the kneeling is supposed to highlight, are now back in line and standing for the anthem. Three players on the Dolphins who had knelt for the anthem in prior weeks chose on Sunday to stay in the locker room, which was also in defiance of league policy. They were not fined.

That may not be enough for some owners, though, particularly when nearly two dozen players on the San Francisco 49ers continue to kneel during the anthem. It was the former quarterback of that team, Colin Kaepernick, who ignited the round of anthem demonstrations by kneeling during the anthem last season to draw attention, he said, to racial oppression and fatal shootings by the police of African-Americans.

The 49ers’ chief executive officer, Jed York, has not only stood by his players, but also made a $1 million donation to the team’s community fund to highlight his support for Kaepernick.

The controversy has spilled into the broader football community, with some former players lashing out at current players who refuse to stand for the anthem. Mike Ditka, a Hall of Fame player and head coach, said Monday that he did not believe that there had been any oppression in the United States in the last century. “All of a sudden, it’s become a big deal now, about oppression,” he said.

Other former players, including wide receiver Steve Smith Sr., quickly reminded Ditka of the civil rights movement of the 1960s. “Great coach, clueless person,” Smith wrote on Twitter.

The Cowboys and other N.F.L. teams, as private businesses, can limit what employees can say or do while working. To date, the league has not enforced its rule that players must be on the sideline for the anthem and should stand while it is being played, though the wording in the league manual does not make standing a requirement.

The collective bargaining agreement, though, requires that these and other rules cannot be changed after the start of training camp.

Joe Lockhart, a league spokesman, said no fines had been issued for players not on the sidelines but he declined to say if penalties, which could inflame tensions between players and owners and attract the kind of attention the league would rather not have, would be levied going forward.

If the league suddenly began fining, benching or suspending players who do not stand for the anthem, it may prompt the union to file a lawsuit, said Michael LeRoy, who teaches sports law at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign.

“There’s a basic fairness issue when you change a rule during the season, especially when you are getting browbeaten by the president,” LeRoy said. “On paper, it’s not a change in the rule, but in reality it is.”

Still, Lockhart, hinting at potential action by the owners, added,“Everyone here is frustrated by the process, and particularly the politics around this.”

The owners, he said, would be meeting next week in New York and — no surprise — will be discussing what steps to take next, including, potentially, strengthening the language in its game operations manual.

“There’s a strong feeling at every level,” Lockhart said, “that we ought to be getting back to football.”

ATLANTA — Before college football’s national championship game Monday night between Georgia and Alabama, Georgia’s Redcoat Marching Band will perform for a few minutes. It is scheduled to enter to the “Bulldog March” medley, accompany fans as they shout the spelling of the state’s name, then play Georgia’s unofficial fight song.

That last number, “Glory, Glory” will be played, in slow and fast versions, throughout the game. “After anything big happens,” said Mike Robinson, the band’s director, adding, “We play it a lot.”

Georgia fans will hear the song for what it is. But others will recognize the stirring tune as an older and nationally prominent song: “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”

Famous as a Civil War anthem of the North, “Battle Hymn” was inspired by a song that honored the antislavery martyr John Brown. The apocalyptic lyrics cast the South as a serpent, the biblical embodiment of evil, and link the Union to a divine mission, imploring, “Let us die to make men free.”

“That seems strange for a band that was named Dixie at one time,” said Brett Bawcum, who was a Redcoat Marching Band drum major as an undergraduate and is now Georgia’s associate director of athletic bands.

Georgia adopted the tune barely three decades after the Confederacy’s surrender. It was a time when “Battle Hymn” was less divisive than it had been or would later become. Slapping on new lyrics was easy. In the Georgia version, its precursor’s thrice-repeated lyric, “Glory, glory Hallelujah,” is replaced with, “Glory, Glory to old Georgia,” and the line “His truth is marching on” is supplanted by “G-E-O-R-G-I-A.”

The migration of an abolitionist, pro-North Civil War hymn to a football team in the Deep South inevitably strikes some observers as odd.

Christian McWhirter, a historian from Canada who wrote “Battle Hymns,” a book about Civil War songs, said that when he first heard the Georgia version at a football game, “It hit me like a ton of bricks.”

The tune’s journey demonstrates its power to stir feelings of righteousness, no matter the substance of its words. And at a time when how to commemorate the Civil War is a divisive question, the melody’s beloved status among Georgia fans suggests that the culture wars are not always a full-time struggle.

“Associating it with the ‘Battle Hymn of the Republic’ was not really something we did,” said Harvey H. Jackson III, a historian of the South at Jacksonville State University who earned his Ph.D at Georgia. “It was a college football fight song.”

Georgia football fans are not alone in co-opting the melody. The pro-labor chant “Solidarity Forever” is perhaps the most widely known adaptation. In northern England, certain fans sing “Glory, Glory Man United” for their favorite soccer team. In college sports there is “Glory, Glory Colorado,” as well as the less-used “Glory, Glory to Ole Auburn.”

The melody originated in the early 1800s with a hymn, “Grace Reviving the Soul,” according to the book “Battle Hymn of the Republic: A Biography of the Song That Marches On.” Its lyrics went, “Say brothers will you meet us,” three times, and then, “On Canaan’s happy shore.”

In the spring of 1861, the soldiers of a Boston-based Union regiment pinned the tune to the lyrics: “John Brown’s body lies a-mouldering in the grave/His soul is marching on.” It was an ode to the man who was hanged for raiding the Harpers Ferry Armory in protest of slavery not two years earlier.

Julia Ward Howe, a well-to-do Northern abolitionist and poet, heard the tune that autumn while observing Union troops in Virginia. She decided to prettify the lyrics, which had expanded to include such lines as, “We’ll hang Jeff Davis from a sour apple tree.”

She wrote five verses — beginning with the famous “Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord” — and submitted them to The Atlantic Monthly. The poetry editor published them in the February 1862 issue under the title “Battle Hymn of the Republic.” The lyrics became extremely popular — Abraham Lincoln praised them — and remained widely known after the war had ended.

“Glory, Glory” emerged at a time when football was just cropping up in the region, said Bruce Schueneman, an author of an anthology of college fight songs. The first game in the Deep South was played in 1892 between Georgia and Auburn (which might explain why they both have versions of the song). There is a published reference to its being played at the 1906 baseball season opener versus Clemson.

“There’s no way you would use that melody in the late 19th or early 20th century without knowing it’s the ‘Battle Hymn of the Republic,’” McWhirter said.

A likely explanation for a Southern school’s adoption of a Northern song, historians say, was that it was a time of patriotism, particularly around the Spanish-American War.

Besides, it is really, really catchy.

“They graft these new lyrics onto it because it’s easy to do it,” McWhirter said. “That’s why this melody has always been popular.”

The song was not the only thing Southern football acolytes adopted. Football itself derived from the North, said Wayne Flynt, a professor emeritus of history at Auburn, and was seen as a pastime of the East Coast elite that Southerners would do well to copy.

“They did what almost anybody does when they’re tiptoeing into something new to them, but familiar elsewhere: borrowing the rules from the North, the number of players, the idea of mottos and school names and colors,” Flynt said.

But as the 20th century played out, the melody encountered more turbulence in the South. In 1937, the Daughters of the Confederacy called for its lyrics to be rewritten. At football games, said McWhirter, the melody, whether as a school fight song or as “Battle Hymn of the Republic,” was frequently balanced with “Dixie,” which was increasingly used as a racially tinged tribute to the Old South. At the University of Mississippi, “His truth is marching on” would sometimes be changed to “The South shall rise again.”

When the band director Roger Dancz elected to remove the word “Dixie” from the Redcoat Marching Band’s name in the 1971 season, he was hanged in effigy, said Mark Maxwell, the Georgia athletics archivist. A cartoon in the band yearbook joked that “redcoat,” “marching” and “band” were also offensive words that would need to be removed. (“Redcoat” is not a British Army reference, as the satirists suggested, but a punning dig at the rival Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets.)

These days, “Glory, Glory” has been embraced comprehensively. Since 1987, home games have incorporated an elaborate tradition in which a trumpet soloist in the stands begins to play a down-tempo version, which the band calls “Slow Glory,” followed by a recorded inspirational speech about Georgia from the play-by-play announcer Larry Munson, who died in 2011.

For lifelong Georgia fans, it is simply their fight song. On Monday night in Atlanta, it will represent nothing more than the Bulldogs’ aspirations to defeat the Crimson Tide and claim the national championship.

“This is a melody that predates the Civil War to begin with,” Bawcum said. “The war’s been over a long time, and the U.S. won.”

Sports as escape has always been a myth, and I have never been reminded of that so clearly as I was recently before the singing of the national anthem at a marathon in the rural South, when the starter said that anyone who knelt was going to get a “butt whuppin’.” (I wondered especially how the African-American runners who had trained for months for the race felt about that jolly send-off.) Over the past month, I have steeped myself in some dozen new sports books, and all seemed, to varying degrees, to speak to the tenor of the times. Or maybe the tenor is sounding a note so long and shrill it seems like white noise in the background for everything.

The Golden State Warriors’ contretemps with the president over a withdrawn invitation to the White House seized a news cycle, and their subsequent statement that they “celebrate equality, diversity and inclusion” is reflected, for instance, in their hiring of the team president Rick Welts, “the highest-ranking out-gay team executive in American professional sports,” as Erik Malinowski puts it in BETABALL: How Silicon Valley and Science Built One of the Greatest Basketball Teams in History (Atria, $26). The phenomenon of Stephen Curry and the sudden rise of the Warriors to the N.B.A.’s heights deserve a deep dive, but “Betaball” is more often a disappointing data dump. Beginning with the purchase of the Warriors in 2010 by the venture capital wizard Joe Lacob, Malinowski, the Warriors beat writer for Bleacher Report, plods along through accounts of seven seasons, too infrequently rising from the morass of statistics and overly detailed game accounts to tell stories of outside-the-box thinking like those that animated Michael Lewis’s “Moneyball,” the ur-front-office-chronicle. (Game 1 of the 2012-13 second-round playoff series against the San Antonio Spurs takes nearly three pages.)

When Malinowski homes in on those innovations that the Warriors adopted or developed, the stories are revealing. In one case, the coach Steve Kerr heeds the advice of the team’s performance trainer, Keke Lyles, to consult the Stanford University sleep researcher Cheri Mah, who proposed strategies (like limiting daytime naps to 30 minutes) to mitigate the effects of long-distance travel. Elsewhere, Malinowski convincingly makes the case that the organization’s openness to using new sources of data and to adopting suggestions up and down the organizational chart — reflecting Lacob’s Silicon Valley background — gives the Warriors a leg up on the opposition. Those accounts, however, are buried in the rote narration of the various seasons. Sentences like this are not uncommon: “David Lee, pouring in 19 points and nearly 11 boards while playing in 51 of Golden State’s first 52 games, was named as a reserve for the Western Conference All-Star squad, the first time a Warrior had been named to the All-Star team in 16 years, since Latrell Sprewell in 1997.” These may be sweet memories for hard-core Warriors fans, but they obscure the promised tale in the subtitle. (I also feel obligated to warn potential audiobook listeners that “David Lee” is about the only name the reader doesn’t mispronounce.)

If Malinowski’s book posits that winning through analytics and a diversity of opinion is the wave of the future, Mike McIntire, an investigative journalist with The New York Times, offers a chronicle of a team that succeeds the old-fashioned way: bending, breaking and ignoring the rules. CHAMPIONS WAY: Football, Florida, and the Lost Soul of College Sports (Norton, $26.95) documents how big-time college programs like Florida State massage egos, flout the law, bow down to the almighty dollar and make a mockery of the term “student-athlete” in order to keep winning. (Why the subtitle doesn’t add “State” to “Florida” is a puzzle, though.) McIntire doesn’t mention it in the book, but The Onion had been on this case as long ago as 2006 when it headlined a satirical piece “Florida State University to Phase Out Academic Operations by 2010.”

If the university had taken that route, we wouldn’t be reading about Christie Suggs, a teaching assistant at the College of Business’s Dedman School of Hospitality, “located in a rather odd place on … campus: the south end zone of the Seminoles’ football stadium.” Troubled by the shoddy, incomplete and plagiarized work of football players in online classes (“Coffee, Tea & International Culture” was one) and faced with unresponsive higher-ups, she reluctantly becomes a whistle-blower, but finds her concerns unaddressed and her work responsibilities reduced, notably as the Seminoles are marching toward a national championship season in 2013, led by the star quarterback Jameis Winston. More harrowing and better known is the story of Erica Kinsman, a Florida State freshman in 2012, who alleged that she was raped by Winston but whose complaint, McIntire says, was insufficiently investigated by the Tallahassee police and her case further undermined by athletic department machinations. (Winston was never charged, and the university eventually settled with Kinsman.)

Unrelenting in railing against these improprieties and many others on campus, like embezzlement in the booster club and the sordid influence of the rapper Luther Campbell, McIntire paints a grim picture of a culture of malfeasance, particularly in its treatment of women, at the heart of college athletics. Yet as briskly and passionately as he lays out the horrors in Tallahassee and elsewhere, there’s little that’s surprising, nor does he plot any way forward. Exposing wrongdoing is the investigative journalist’s raison d’être but McIntire’s account of the systemic depth of its entrenchment leaves one despairing of any potential corrective.

The popularity of the rediscovered historical sports narrative, à la “Seabiscuit” and “The Boys in the Boat,” has sent microfilm reels spinning, and Roseanne Montillo’s FIRE ON THE TRACK: Betty Robinson and the Triumph of the Early Olympic Women (Crown, $27) brings to light the accomplishments of women track athletes of nearly a century ago, who struggled to overcome old-boy resistance and misogynistic discrimination in pursuing their goals.

The book is a worthy addition to the genre but also demonstrates its limitations. In the first half, I found the portrait of Robinson, the Olympic 100-meter-dash champion in 1928 (when women were first allowed to compete), lacking in complexity, despite her survival of a dramatic plane crash and rehabilitation after. The “Notes and Sources” seem to indicate substantial reliance, perhaps overly so in the absence of many primary sources, on Montillo’s correspondence with Robinson’s son. Whatever the case, her style tends to the overheated, whether because of the paucity of sources or not: “She felt her muscles come alive as she dashed down the track, the auditorium pulsating wildly as time seemed to stop altogether yet simultaneously blast forward faster than she could ever have imagined.” Weather conditions, one of the readily available sources, seem to get outsize importance and emphasis in her re-creations.

It’s worth sticking with the book, however, through the second half, which picks up speed in the minibiographies of Babe Didrikson and lesser-known figures like Stella Walsh, a Clevelander who raced for Poland in the 1932 and 1936 Olympics, and whose strength and speed and refusal to shower with others provoked rumors about her true sex. There is also Helen Stephens, whose frank diary describes an awkward encounter with Hitler after her win in the 100-meter dash at the 1936 Berlin Olympics and her own battle with the general presumption that “no one that tall, with a stride that long, nearly six feet, with a form so graceless, could be anything other than a man.” (She was subjected to a clinical examination to confirm her eligibility.) By covering a wider range of personalities in the second half of her book, Montillo succinctly adds context to prevailing — and appalling — views and thus elevates the accomplishments of all the women competing in track.

Had she been playing 80 years ago, Maria Sharapova, at 6-foot-2 and fiercely competitive, might have suffered Stephens’s fate and had her femininity not just questioned but physically confirmed. In any case, it’s disturbing to read in UNSTOPPABLE: My Life So Far (Sarah Crichton/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $28), the memoir that she’s written with Rich Cohen, that she’s so oblivious to women’s body-image issues she says of Serena Williams, “she has thick arms and thick legs and is so intimidating and strong. And tall, really tall.” Williams is 5-foot-9. ”Even now, she can make me feel like a little girl.” If not overtly racist, the statements play into racial stereotypes, implying that Williams, who holds a lifetime 19-2 record over Sharapova, has beaten the “little girl” merely by overpowering her, not through tactical acumen and other skills of the game.

I’m inclined to believe Sharapova that her doping, which caused her to be barred from the tour for 15 months, was inadvertent. And I admire her on-court tenacity and her marketing savvy. But if she really wants to help the “many young girls, who had been inspired by my example and my life” and whom she heard from during her suspension, she would do well to reflect on the way she thinks and speaks about other women. Her inspirational words for those girls: “The record book? Posterity? [Expletive] that. Did you hear what that girl said about me at the press conference? That’s what gets me going.”

I found a balm for Sharapovian self-absorption in Simon Critchley’s slim WHAT WE THINK ABOUT WHEN WE THINK ABOUT SOCCER (Penguin, $20), whose title is an obvious nod to Haruki Murakami’s “What I Talk About When I Talk About Running” (its own title a nod to a Raymond Carver story) and whose green cover seems copied from last year’s David Foster Wallace collection of tennis writing, “String Theory.” I admit to being a sucker for this kind of intellectual maundering about the meaning of sports, but I know plenty of sports fans can’t stand it.

Critchley trots out Sartre, Foucault and especially Hans-Georg Gadamer, whose idea of the “tragic pensiveness” of the spectator at ancient theater Critchley links to a soccer crowd’s participation, which is not “aloof from the action” but “constantly attentive.” Further, he asserts, adopting Hegel’s terms, that “the being of the players is not being-in-itself, but being-for-us, mediated through the spectators and requiring their recognition in order to affirm the players’ existence.” He does have the good sense to augment such bicycle-kick difficulty with simpler wisdom from soccer philosophers like the legendary Liverpool manager Bill Shankly, who once said: “The socialism I believe in is not really politics. It is a way of living. It is humanity. I believe the way to live and be truly successful is by collective effort, with everyone working for each other.” Much that Critchley muses on about soccer could be equally applicable to other team sports, and he doesn’t shy away from soccer’s long history of hooliganism, corruption and sexism.

Critchley’s most bracing commentary may be that on Philippe Parreno and Douglas Gordon’s 2006 film “Zidane: A 21st-Century Portrait,” about the French star: “On the one hand, it gives us a sense of the capture of reality by commodified images in the century into which we have slowly slouched our way. But on the other hand … there is the suggestion, the adumbration of an inaccessible interiority, a reality that resists commodification.” Call it a header-in-the-clouds book.

My favorite book of the bunch, and the one that best captures the American sports landscape in these times, is not about any competition on the field but about the landscape-clearing constructions where the games take place. THE ARENA: Inside the Tailgating, Ticket-Scalping, Mascot-Racing, Dubiously Funded, and Possibly Haunted Monuments of American Sport (Liveright, $27.95), by the freelance writer Rafi Kohan, is smart, readable, deeply reported and researched, engagingly personal, funny and often surprisingly poignant.

Kohan traverses the country from Green Bay’s Lambeau Field to New York’s Citi Field to San Diego’s Petco Park, embedding with the stadium Everymen and Everywomen who are the nobodies of the sports world. They are the people who tend the grass, change scoreboard numbers, sell food and logo merchandise, scalp tickets and wear mascot costumes. Of Brad Collins, who inhabits the character of Sluggerrr, the Kansas City Royals’ lion mascot, Kohan writes, “After frolicking on the field in 90-degree heat for pregame festivities and player introductions,” Collins enters the windowless mascot quarters, “slams the door and rips off his Sluggerrr head, which is not insubstantial, about one and a half feet square. The stench is immediate and overpowering, like lifting the cover off a cake tray filled with soggy gym socks.”

Don’t mistake the breezy style for lack of substance. Amid a section on the Dallas Cowboys’ stadium in Arlington, Texas (that is, Jerry’s World, for the team’s owner, Jerry Jones), Kohan describes over-the-top amenities like a $15 million sculpture by Anish Kapoor (which looks like “a celestial magnifying glass, as if God were frying Cowboys fans like ants”), but the section also undertakes a comprehensive, cogent survey of the literature on stadium economics. Other chapters explore the pathos of minimum-wage groundskeepers, detail the roller-coaster life of the halftime acrobat the Amazing Sladek and reveal illicit deals vendors cut to earn a few extra dollars — and management’s efforts to catch them.

Kohan’s penultimate chapter is called “Sex. War. America,” and it covers the way that sports has appropriated and intermixed that triad to tease out emotion and profit, portrayed memorably in Ben Fountain’s novel “Billy Lynn’s Long Halftime Walk,” based on the Dallas Cowboys’ 2004 Thanksgiving Day halftime show. Fountain tells him, “just seeing the display of militarism, American exceptionalism, pop music, soft-core porn all mixed together in this kind of crazy to-do — I started feeling like it was its own kind of voodoo.” Kohan also reminds us of a 2015 report from Senators Jeff Flake and John McCain revealing undisclosed payments from the Department of Defense to teams in order to fund military tributes, what Kohan calls “camouflaged propaganda.” The issue, for the senators and others, was one of transparency.

Kohan is sincerely moved at Marine Corps Appreciation Day in San Diego (paid for by the team, not Defense) as he watches a mother reunite with her teenage son for the first time since he left home for boot camp. At the same time, he states, “In the post-9/11 era, pressure has been growing inside stadiums — often implicitly — to participate in group patriotism.”

And outside stadiums, explicitly, at small-town marathons, before the starting gun fires.