DALLAS — Sixty.

That was the number posted on a window of the weight room at Mississippi State. It was a reminder of the point margin in an embarrassing defeat to Connecticut in the 2016 N.C.A.A. women’s basketball tournament. An admonition of how quickly a game can get away. An insistence that it never happen again.

“It didn’t leave our heads at all,” guard Victoria Vivians said.

The rematch came Friday night in the national semifinals. A championship that seemed inevitable for UConn ended instead with the stunningly improbable — a 66-64 defeat on a last-second shot in overtime and the startling extinguishing of a 111-game winning streak and a run of four consecutive national championships.

Mississippi State (34-4), making its first appearance in the Final Four, advanced to Sunday’s championship game against South Carolina, a fellow Southeastern Conference opponent. The Gamecocks defeated Stanford, 62-53, in Friday’s other semifinal.

The winning shot for Mississippi State was a 15-foot jumper at the buzzer by the smallest player on the court, the 5-foot-5-inch point guard Morgan William. With 26.6 seconds left in overtime, UConn had tied the game at 64-64 on a pair of free throws by Katie Lou Samuelson after a flagrant foul for elbowing was called on Mississippi State’s Dominique Dillingham.

UConn kept possession but fumbled a chance to win when Saniya Chong became rushed and put up an awkward shot with 12.3 seconds remaining, trying to draw a foul. Instead, she turned the ball over.

Mississippi State called a timeout, and in its huddle Coach Vic Schaefer looked at William and said, “Mo, you’re about to win the game.”

William averages only about 11 points per game, but she had awakened her scoring in the N.C.A.A. tournament. She scored 41 points in a regional final over Baylor. And she delivered again in the fevered, pressured finale of overtime on Friday.

Dillingham brought the ball up the court, then passed to William as the clock ticked down. Minutes earlier, at the end of regulation, William had driven to the basket, where her shot was blocked by UConn’s Gabby Williams. This time, William took three dribbles from near midcourt to the right of the lane, found some space and feathered a jumper over Williams as the buzzer sounded.

She opened her mouth in stunned jubilation and was mobbed on the sideline by her teammates.

“I was in shock; I’m still in shock,” William said at a postgame news conference after finishing with 13 points and 6 assists. “I’m over here like, dang, I just won the game.”

Vivians, who led the Bulldogs with 19 points but fouled out in overtime, said the victory was redemptive after a 98-38 loss to UConn in 2016. “It was personal,” she said. “We got beat by 60 last year. We had to prove that we’re a way better team than we were last year.”

The Huskies (36-1) entered the taut, thrilling game — one full of runs and lead changes and gripping suspense — with a perfect record but were not a perfect team. The top three stars from last season — Breanna Stewart, Moriah Jefferson and Morgan Tuck — were gone, chosen as the first three players in the W.N.B.A. draft.

The current UConn team was young, with Chong the only senior starter. Before this season, none of the players had been called upon to make decisive plays at pivotal moments. UConn’s depth was thin, with only two reserve players in the rotation. It lacked height inside. On Friday, the Huskies appeared disjointed and impatient, fell into some early foul trouble and trailed by 29-13 in the second quarter, their largest deficit of the season.

UConn’s vulnerabilities were exposed as it lost for the first time in nearly two and a half years, since an 88-86 defeat in overtime at Stanford on Nov. 17, 2014.

UConn rallied and persisted on Friday, as champions do, but Mississippi State’s defense pushed outward on the Huskies in a manner that was ravenous, relentless. A reliable team grew impatient and lost its composure for unusually frustrating periods. A wondrous passing team all season, the Huskies turned the ball over 17 times, collected only 11 assists and took 21 fewer shots than did the Bulldogs.

“They beat us,” Coach Geno Auriemma said. “They took us away from the things that we like to do. We didn’t have the kind of maturity that you need to win at this level at this time of the year.”

Williams, the swooping post player, kept UConn in the game with 21 points, 8 rebounds, 4 blocks and 2 steals, but the Huskies’ offense was insufficient on a rare night of poor shooting. Napheesa Collier, the country’s second-most reliable shooter, missed 7 of her 11 attempts. Kia Nurse, so dependable from the perimeter through the tournament, was 2 for 8 from the field.

“They were really aggressive,” Collier said. “We weren’t ready for it, and it put us on our heels.”

Before taking over at Mississippi State, Schaefer, as an assistant at Texas A&M, devised the suffocating pressure that helped the Aggies win the 2011 women’s N.C.A.A. title. This season, he invigorated Mississippi State’s offense by inverting his lineup, starting some reserves and putting some starters on the bench. William became a more vocal leader. And the Bulldogs have barged their way into the national championship game.

“What an unbelievable, gutsy performance that no one in the country probably thought could happen,” Schaefer said.

He added, “We beat the greatest team, with the greatest streak, in the history of sports.”

The disruption of UConn’s string of national titles may be brief. Another long winning streak could begin in November.

Four starters return, and next year’s roster will include 6-foot-6 forward Azura Stevens, a transfer from Duke who was an all-Atlantic Coast Conference player. Also joining is Megan Walker, a 6-foot-1 guard from Virginia, who was recently named the national high school player of the year.

But on Friday the possibility of future renewal was no balm for present disappointment. For one rare night, UConn was only second best.

“When you get to this point in the season and you lose,” Auriemma said, “it’s the worst feeling imaginable.”

LAUREL, Md. — It was a soaking and memorable rain that night, and the blood that spilled from the bullet holes of a 35-year-old named Charles Craig, a big man left crumpled on the wet pavement, washed down a grate in the low spot of the strip-mall parking lot.

Closing time at J’s Sports Café here had sent a crowd outside, into that hour when no good comes outside of a bar. Taunts and arguments turned to shoves and fists, until it seemed that half the people were fighting and the other half trying to break it up. Bar employees crowded behind the locked glass doors to watch.

But the ferocity eventually faded, and thoughts turned to getting out of the storm and back home. Craig walked toward his car. He was 6-foot-4 and 310 pounds when they measured him at the medical examiner’s office a few hours later. His friends knew him as Big Chucky. A generation of children at a recreation center near Washington knew him as their basketball coach.

He was wearing jeans and sneakers and a bright yellow, short-sleeve polo shirt. He never saw the shirtless man come up behind, holding an unregistered silver Colt revolver, manufactured in 1965.

One .38-caliber bullet nicked Craig’s 10th thoracic vertebra and pierced his aorta. A second, shot from point-blank range that left a circular bruise the size of a muzzle on the back of Craig’s neck, was found in his brain. A third left an entrance wound surrounded by gunpowder stipple at the base of his skull and an exit wound in his left cheek. A fourth cut through the soft tissue of his scalp and flew out below Craig’s left ear.

The shooting created pandemonium in the parking lot. People screamed. Some dropped to the ground. Others fled. The killer left in a getaway car and dropped the gun. It was about 2:40 a.m.

Craig was dead by the time the police arrived. They found his soaked body surrounded by paramedics and a huddle of distraught friends. They found an unhinged man who had picked up the gun with a T-shirt and hidden it behind the tire of a parked car.

A 16-year-old named Kevin Durant was not at the scene, but would soon hear what had happened. Big Chucky was a mentor, a father figure and a coach. Not long after, Durant began to wear jersey No. 35, a nod to Craig’s age when he died.

Durant is 28 now, an eight-time All-Star hoping to lead the Golden State Warriors to an N.B.A. title, and his No. 35 jersey has been one of the N.B.A.’s best sellers for nearly a decade. Fans around the world wear jerseys with Durant’s name and number. At the University of Texas, where Durant spent one season before joining the N.B.A. in 2007, his No. 35 is retired.

To some, it is just a number. To Durant and those who knew Chucky Craig, it is a person and a moment.

“Every time I see it, it’s an instant reminder,” said Melvin McCray, another of Durant’s childhood coaches and a childhood friend of Craig’s. He snapped his fingers. “It’s instant,” he said again. “It’s Chucky.”

Durant was about 8 when he met Craig at Seat Pleasant Activity Center, brick on the outside and orderly on the inside, about six miles east of the United States Capitol. The boy spent countless hours and days there over the next several years, taking naps on the floor of the gym behind the huge curtain that hung from the ceiling, learning from a series of coaches and mentors.

Craig, as important as any of them, was the kind of man who handed kids a few dollars to get a snack, took them to the movies and offered them rides home.

“He loved kids,” his mother, Claudette Craig, said in a recent interview. She was packing up her house in Washington for a move to Georgia, but had a photo of Chucky on the kitchen table that she wanted to carry with her. “He would do anything for any child. He had a van, and he’d come by with a bunch of kids and say, ‘Ma, I got a bunch of hungry kids, can you feed ’em? I’d say, ‘If you get the food, I’ll cook it.’ He was a terrible cook.”

Among those kids who tumbled out of Craig’s van was a young, tall and skinny Durant. The activity center was a home away from home for Durant, a safe and predictable place, and Craig was a father figure to those like Durant who did not have close ties to their fathers.

“If he would have died when he was 47 years old, I would have switched my number to 47,” Durant told The Oklahoman in 2010. “It’s all about doing it for somebody I love. It’s not about what’s the better number and what looks better on me. It’s all about him.”

But Durant knew few details of Craig’s death. It was one of 173 homicides in Prince George’s County in 2005, an especially deadly year, and 466 in the Washington area. It barely made news. The Washington Post gave it a few lines two days after the murder, and a few paragraphs 15 months later, after the trial.

It got so little attention because it was just one more murder in a place where gunshot deaths were routine. And it got so little attention because it happened before Durant was famous.

“Chucky was just another statistic,” said Sherri Kittrell, the director at the activity center.

So the strange and sad story of how Charles Craig died, which is why Kevin Durant wears No. 35, is left mostly to the fading memories of a few witnesses and the hundreds of pages of court documents from the four-day murder trial.

J’s Sports Café had a couple of pool tables and a small dance floor. It was crowded on the stormy night of Friday, April 29, 2005.

The bar sat in an ordinary strip mall along busy Laurel Bowie Road, backing onto the Baltimore-Washington Parkway. A-1 Pawn is still next door, still with a surveillance camera aimed toward the parking lot. A Rite Aid squats near the street. A Food Lion hulks in back. In between is a vast parking lot, its gray landscape dotted with a few trees, a drain at the low spot in the middle.

J’s is long since gone; now it is an airy place called 5 Sisters that serves African cuisine.

Charles Craig was at J’s with his two younger brothers, Kerrick Craig and Kory Nicholson, and a couple of friends. One was Keith Bryant, whose wife, Quanita, was there with friends and a cousin, LaDawn Taylor.

Inside the bar, Taylor recognized someone she vaguely knew from high school, Terrell Bush.

Bush was 24 at the time. He was later described as wearing jeans, dark tennis shoes and a leather jacket, with bushy hair sticking out from under his baseball cap. He had worked at Taco Bell and Roy Rogers and as a roofer, among other odd jobs. In 2002, he was charged with attempted murder, but was later acquitted. By the time of the night at J’s Sports Cafe in April 2005, he had three children and a baby on the way.

Craig and his group crowded the bar, having drinks and talking over the music. For the autopsy, examiners ordered three toxicology tests on Craig — blood, urine and vitreous fluid of the eye. The alcohol concentration results were consistent, between 0.08 percent and 0.1 percent, about the line for where it becomes illegal to drive. There were no drugs in his system.

There was a last call, and sometime after 2 a.m. the workers at J’s nudged everyone outside, maybe 200 people. Some dashed through the rain to their cars. Others loitered in bunches along the covered sidewalk that stretched the distance of the strip center.

When Craig and his brothers stepped into the night, they saw an unfamiliar couple arguing in front of the pawnshop. A crowd gathered as the woman started hitting the man. In a recent interview, Kerrick Craig, 46, said he was one of those who watched and laughed at the man getting beat up. He says that man was Bush.

But as the dispute intensified, he said, one of his friends intervened in an attempt to break it up. Kerrick Craig said Bush hit him, and he hit Bush “out of reflex.” In an instant, like fire from a struck match, a brawling street fight started.

It involved 15 or 20 people, witnesses said during the trial, and at least that many converged to try to end it. Employees of J’s Sports Café crowded against the glass double doors of a small vestibule to watch. A man fell, bleeding, a few feet outside the doors, and the bar manager slipped outside to attend to him.

One punch knocked the glasses off Kerrick Craig’s face. He said he fell to the ground on his back and, scared of being trampled, fought people off with his hands and feet. “There were about five us fighting in front of 50 or 60 people,” he recalled. “Chucky was trying to get in there, but girls were holding him back, going, ‘They’re fine, they’re fine.’”

But Chucky Craig stood out. He was a big man in a bright-yellow shirt.

“When Chucky was spotted in the crowd, my cousin, my girlfriends and myself went to pull him away from the fight,” Quanita Bryant testified in 2006. “And my husband, cousin and girlfriend successfully moved him away from the fight and brought him towards me in the parking lot.”

The fight’s momentum slowed and the crowd gradually dispersed. People filtered deeper into the lot, climbing into cars to get away from the chaos and rain. Some remembered hearing shouts about someone with a gun. But Chucky Craig never turned around. A man without a shirt, which was presumably lost in the scuffle, had come behind him quickly and shot him four times. It was 2:40 a.m.

“A guy ran up on my brother and shot him and then shot him again and jumped into a car and pulled off,” Kerrick Craig testified. He was just stepping into his car at the time.

“Were you able to get a good look at the person that shot your brother?” a lawyer asked.

“Not good enough,” Craig said. “My glasses were gone.”

Kerrick Craig, now a station manager for Washington’s subway system, said he thought about that night every day, his mind replaying the man approaching his brother from behind in slow motion, wondering why the killer went after his brother, not him.

“I’ve always had this guilt,” he said. “I always felt he was looking for me. If he had seen me, I would have been the target.”

The calls went out to family and friends before the sun came up on April 30. The funeral at New Grove Missionary Baptist Church on Benning Road was so crowded that a neighbor of Claudette Craig’s told her that he drove by and thought it must be for a senator. A reception was held at Seat Pleasant Activity Center.

Claudette Craig paid extra for an oversize coffin, she said, but had no money for a headstone. Chucky Craig lies in an unmarked grave at National Harmony Memorial Park in Landover, Md.

“That’s all I want to do, before I go — put a headstone there,” she said. “I’m already 70. I don’t have much time.”

Terrell Bush had been living in an apartment complex little more than a mile from the shooting, but it would take more than six months and a trip across state lines for the police to find him. There were a lot of witnesses to the murder, but the chaos of the moment — gunshots, people ducking for cover, a dimly lit parking lot being deluged by rain — left few strong ones.

Quanita Bryant had a good look, from about 15 feet away, she told the police. So did Taylor, who knew Bush from high school. But neither of them were much help to the police, unable or unwilling to make a declarative identification.

Paramedics were the first to respond to the shooting. They declared Chucky Craig dead. The first officer from the Prince George’s County Police arrived at 3 a.m.

“The scene was extremely chaotic,” Sgt. Charles Burgess told the court. “It was literally a torrential downpour.”

One man immediately caught his attention. The man was hysterical, crying and screaming that someone shot his friend in the back. The officer yanked him away because he was interfering with the medics.

“In the middle of all that, he just literally stopped,” Sergeant Burgess said. “And it was like he had a sudden stop of the emotion. And he just turned at me and very calmly said, ‘I am going to tell you some very important information, man.’ And I said, ‘Well, please do.’”

The man, LaRonn Smith, told the officer that he had hidden the gun. When he saw the assailant drop it as he got into the getaway car, he walked straight for it, grabbed a wet white T-shirt from the ground and picked it up, careful not to get his own fingerprints on it. He carried it toward parked cars and hid it behind the front wheel of one. He led Sergeant Burgess to it.

Cpl. Rona Johnson, an evidence technician for the Prince George’s County Police, arrived soon after. A year later, she remembered the rain, too.

“The water was coming down so fast and so heavy that it was going up over the top of my boots,” she testified.

Corporal Johnson later swabbed the gun. “It was too wet to do any prints off of it,” she said.

The parking lot was littered with debris — clothes, hats, beer bottles, jewelry, eyeglasses. But the rain, she said, “destroyed anything that I might have collected. I did try, but I didn’t get anything.” On cross-examination from the defense, she said that she saw no hairs or anything else on the collected items that might have been tested for DNA.

Craig’s body was removed within a couple of hours and taken to Baltimore. James Laron Locke, an assistant medical examiner for the State of Maryland, performed the autopsy. He noted that Craig was wearing boots, socks, jeans with a belt, briefs and a T-shirt and another shirt, both of which had holes consistent with bullet wounds. He noted injuries to Craig’s back, neck and head, as well as abrasions on his knees, presumably from when Craig fell facedown to the pavement.

He found the four bullet entrance wounds, two exit wounds and two bullets — one in the sac surrounding the heart, the other in Craig’s brain. Craig died of multiple gunshot wounds, Locke concluded.

It is unclear whether the police were on the trail of Bush in the days after the shooting. But four days later, on the eve of Craig’s funeral, Kerrick Craig called Detective Kelly Rogers, a homicide investigator for the Prince George’s County Police. His girlfriend happened to work with a woman who said that her boyfriend may have shot and killed someone in Laurel over the weekend.

Kerrick Craig later testified that he held the information for a couple of days, unsure whether to give it to the police.

“Naturally, you think of revenge,” he said last week. “But eventually common sense kicks in.”

He gave the detective a name: Terrell Bush.

Detective Rogers found an old photograph of Bush and created a photo array of six men who matched witness descriptions of the gunman — a black man with medium complexion, 5-foot-6 or 5-7, bushy hair. She and another investigator showed the arrays to Bryant and Taylor, separately but simultaneously. Neither made a positive identification. Taylor did not mention that she knew No. 6 from high school.

The next day, the day of the funeral, Detective Rogers and another officer met LaRonn Smith on a street corner.

“I handed him the photo sheet,” Detective Rogers testified. “I saw his eyes scan the sheet, and his eyes became wide. He started breathing heavily. He seemed to change demeanor. He seemed nervous. And he pointed to No. 6, and he indicated that that was the person that shot his friend or shot the victim on the night of the 30th.”

Smith signed the back and wrote “6.” By the end of the day, there was a warrant for Bush for first-degree murder.

Bush was a fugitive for months. Sometime in late May, he arrived in Clarkston, Ga., an Atlanta suburb, at the apartment of Steven and Denise Jackson. They had met Bush a time or two before, at a friend’s house in Maryland, and knew him only as Bush Baby. Now the friend asked a favor: Can Bush Baby come stay with you in Georgia?

He was dropped off by women named Chrissy and Sunshine, the couple testified. He carried his belongings in a garbage bag and a small duffel. Bush told the Jacksons his name was Wayne Remington. When they moved apartments on July 1, he moved with them.

He never worked, but got money sent to him through Western Union. He picked it up at the liquor store at the top of the hill, using the password “Wayne’s World.” Once, Denise Jackson allowed the friends in Maryland to wire $3,200 into her bank account to give to Bush. He told them it was from a car he had sold back in Maryland.

He called the Jacksons “Unc” and “Aunty.” He never told them exactly why he moved from Maryland.

“Just things was hot in the city. He needed a change,” Steven Jackson testified. “Got into an argument at a club or something, and he was leaving the city. He didn’t want to be around violence anymore.”

One day in December, Bush, Jackson and two friends were at the apartment. They noticed unmarked trucks driving back and forth in the complex. Inside were a police officer from Maryland, local sheriff’s deputies and United States Marshals.

Jackson left the apartment and tried to run from the officers, knowing he had an arrest warrant from Ohio. But Cpl. Michael Carlson of the Prince George’s County Police was not in Georgia to look for Jackson. He and others, armed and wearing bulletproof vests, went to the door.

“On the porch entering the apartment, I saw Bush standing in the hallway,” Corporal Carlson testified. “I told him to get on the ground, that we had an arrest warrant for him, and I placed him in handcuffs.”

“He asked me who I had an arrest warrant for, and I said, ‘Terrell Bush,’” Corporal Carlson continued. “He said that wasn’t his name. And I told him then basically that I knew that was his name, and that was the end of the discussion.”

Bush has been in custody since.

The trial in the Circuit Court for Prince George’s County began on Monday, Aug. 21, 2006, more than 15 months after the shooting. Bush was 25. Durant was about to start his freshman year at Texas.

The trial took two and a half days before it went to the jury. Bush did not testify on his own behalf. Fourteen witnesses were called to the stand, but only four who were at the scene of the murder when it occurred — all of them friends or relatives of Charles Craig’s.

The case hinged largely on LaRonn Smith, the only one willing and able to identify Bush as the killer. He was a lively witness who admitted that he had been drunk that night.

“You said you were drunk drinking?” a defense lawyer, Thomas Mooney, asked him.

“No, I didn’t say I was drunk drinking,” Smith replied.

“Were you drinking?”

“I say I was probably drunk tripping,” Smith explained.

“You — you were drinking either Rémy or Champagne?”

“Yeah,” Smith said.

Closing arguments were made on the trial’s third day. The defense argued that only one witness, a questionable one, had identified Bush as the culprit. Few potential witnesses were contacted, the defense added, and no evidence was directly linked to Bush.

“The investigation quite frankly stunk,” Mooney said. “It stunk.”

State prosecutors pointed out evidence that Bush was at the bar that night, was identified by a witness as the gunman, and was soon in Georgia living under an alias.

“This isn’t a conspiracy,” the state prosecutor, William Moomau, said in his concluding remarks. “This is a case of this defendant killing a man and wanting to get away with it. And all of his actions afterwards point to that.”

The jury began deliberations at 11:10 a.m. on the third day of the trial. At 4 p.m., it passed a note to the court.

“Jury still cannot agree,” it said. “How much longer do we need to deliberate before we are declared a hung jury? Signed, the foreman.”

The judge sent the jurors home for the night. They returned at 9 a.m. That afternoon, at 2:33 p.m. on the trial’s fourth day, they announced their verdict: guilty of first-degree murder.

Only a few people sat in the gallery of the small courtroom every day. One was Claudette Craig.

“I wasn’t going to go to the trial,” she said at her kitchen table. “But my daughter said to go, because the judge will want to know you care. So I got up and got dressed every morning and went.”

Sentencing was on Monday, Aug. 28.

“Good morning,” Claudette Craig said when given the chance to address the court, and then Bush. She remembers that Bush would not look at her. “I have been pondering and pondering over what I want to say. I want him to know that he had no right to take my son’s life and how much havoc he wreaked on me and my family. And not only did he wreak havoc on me and my family, he wreaked it on his mother, too. My son is gone, and he is gone, too. His mother is at a loss as much as I am. I don’t know what to say to you as much as God bless you and have mercy on your soul.”

Bush was ordered to stand up, and the judge asked if he had anything to say.

“Hum, taking the advice of my lawyer, I remain silent,” he said, according to the court transcript.

Bush was sentenced to life in prison for first-degree murder, plus 20 years for the use of a handgun in a felony. Appeals have been unsuccessful. Bush, serving his sentence at North Branch Correctional Institution in Cumberland, Md., declined repeated requests to be interviewed.

“Bush, you murdered Charles Craig in cold blood,” the judge told him as he announced the sentence in 2006.

Two days later, classes began at the University of Texas, where Durant would begin to wear jersey No. 35.

DURANT, Okla. — Kelly Green, the men’s basketball coach at Southeastern Oklahoma State University, battles relative obscurity by using all the tools at his disposal. Until recently, Green highlighted the campus’s unique geography to sell out-of-state prospects on his Division II program.

“We’re in the city of Durant,” Green would tell recruits, “like Kevin Durant.”

Green felt much more comfortable using this tangential connection back when Kevin Durant was still playing for the Oklahoma City Thunder. But those ties disappeared when Durant signed with the Golden State Warriors in free agency over the summer, forcing Green to scrap his pitch.

“When Kevin left, I was like, ‘Well, now what do I say?’” Green said. “He really screwed up my spiel.”

The grief over Durant (the player) is palpable in Durant (the city), a quiet community of about 17,000 people about 150 miles southeast of Oklahoma City that has, in small ways, paid the price for pure coincidence. One teenager sought retribution by campaigning to change the name of the city to Westbrook. Basketball players at Durant Middle School hear the occasional barbs from opponents.

But mostly, people here — like many Thunder fans across the state — are sad that Durant left.

“Honestly,” Caleb Heavner, 12, said, “I cried a little bit.”

Kevin Durant is set to make his return to Oklahoma City this weekend, when the Warriors play the Thunder on Saturday night. Vestiges of Durant remain here in Durant, most notably tucked among bins of merchandise at Hibbett Sports on West Main Street. Late last month, on a rack near the cash register marked “Clearance: Up to 50% off,” six Durant T-shirts from his days with the Thunder were priced to sell at $4.97 apiece. They were not exactly flying out the door.

Natalie Robertson, an assistant manager at the store, said some people had bought Durant T-shirts around the holidays as gag gifts. At least one patron, she said, had announced his intention to use one as kindling for a bonfire, which was perhaps an unorthodox form of therapy.

“But most people are like, ‘Why are you still selling these?’” she said.

Considered the magnolia capital of Oklahoma, Durant — traditionally pronounced DEW-rant rather than duh-RANT — was founded in the early 19th century by Dixon Durant, a prominent businessman, minister and civic leader. (Kevin Durant is not in any way related to Dixon Durant.) The city itself is a fairly tranquil place, complete with tourist attractions.

“You know we have the world’s largest peanut, right?” asked Asia Willingham, a teacher whose husband, Zach, coaches the seventh-grade boys’ basketball team at Durant Middle School.

But that sense of civic serenity was briefly upended over the summer thanks to the handiwork of Ryan Nazari, a 17-year-old high school student from Edmond, Okla. Dismayed by Durant’s decision, Nazari started a petition on Change.org that sought to rebrand the city. Durant would become Westbrook, after Russell Westbrook, the Thunder’s star point guard.

“Everyone was just really upset over Durant leaving, especially me,” Nazari said in a telephone interview. “So why not poke some fun and laugh for a change? The petition was really just a joke.”

And then it quickly became popular, collecting nearly 3,000 signatures. Nazari’s parents were unaware of their son’s extracurricular project until they heard about it on the local news.

“And my dad was like, ‘What are you doing?’” said Nazari, who plans to study biomechanical engineering in college.

It might be worth noting that Nazari has never actually been to Durant, where most residents seemed to get a kick out of the petition. They are, however, not changing the name of the city. Nicolas Crouse, a 13-year-old shooting guard at Durant Middle School, has a vested interest in the status quo. His great-great-great-great-great-grandfather, he said, was Dixon Durant.

Like Nazari, Crouse said he was bummed about Kevin Durant. In the dreary aftermath of Durant’s decision, Crouse dug out his Durant replica jersey but resisted the urge to cut it into tiny pieces. Instead, he settled on a more peaceful form of protest: He slapped a strip of masking tape across the name on the back and wrote “Westbrook” on it.

If there are others who cannot help themselves, Crouse does not entertain any fantasies that Durant will ever return to the Thunder. Crouse values loyalty.

“He left,” he said. “And I can understand that. But I don’t really like him anymore.”

Heavner, one of Crouse’s teammates, attended several Durant-era games at Chesapeake Energy Arena, including one in January 2014 when Durant scored a career-high 54 points in a narrow win over the Warriors. Heavner said he had looked up to Durant. He tried to emulate his shooting stroke.

“He could score the ball with such ease,” Heavner said.

As for the N.B.A. All-Star Game this month, when Westbrook and Durant will be reunited as teammates for the Western Conference, Heavner offered Westbrook some unsolicited advice.

“I hope he doesn’t pass him the ball,” Heavner said.

Green, the coach at Southeastern, where Dennis Rodman was a star player in the mid-1980s, said he would never blame a professional athlete for pursuing another opportunity. It is a business, after all.

“Players get traded, and coaches get fired,” Green said. “Billy Donovan, he’s doing a great job coaching the Thunder. But one day he’s going to take another job or get fired. And that’s pro sports.”

The hard part for Oklahomans, Green said, was coping with the realization that they could be spurned by a high-profile athlete whom many considered an adopted son. This was a new and disheartening experience for many of the Thunder’s more impassioned fans. Remember: When the Seattle SuperSonics relocated to Oklahoma City in 2008 as the Thunder, the franchise became the state’s first to compete in any of the four major pro leagues — and Durant was the face of that franchise.

“So when the team came here,” Green said, “the feeling was: ‘Oh, he’ll never leave. He’s going to build himself a house out in Edmond, and he’s going to live here forever.’”

That did not turn out to be. Jalik Lewis, a 13-year-old point guard at Durant Middle School, dwells on missed opportunities. When Durant was still playing for the Thunder, Lewis thought it would have been cool if Durant had actually visited Durant.

“Because his last name is Durant,” Lewis said. “Who wouldn’t love that?”

But while Lewis was disappointed by Durant’s departure, he does not hold grudges, he said. He prizes his three Durant jerseys, his two Durant T-shirts, his Durant sneakers and his Durant athletic socks.

“Kevin Durant’s still the main man,” Lewis said. “I mean, I was heartbroken. But it was his decision, not mine. So I’m not going to put him down.”

At the same time, Lewis does not expect Durant to be warmly received in Oklahoma City this weekend.

“I think everybody’s just going to throw a big fit,” he said. “But I also hope that people would have gotten over it by now and be a little more mature.”

Here in Durant, there may not be joy, but at least there is a little bit of forgiveness.

The Supreme Court agreed on Tuesday to hear an appeal from Gov. Chris Christie and the state of New Jersey to allow betting on professional and collegiate sports at the state’s casinos and racetracks.

The case, which the court will hear in the fall, will be a major test for the federal ban on sports betting as established by the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act, known as Paspa, which Congress passed in 1992 outlawing betting on amateur or professional athletes except in four states that already had operations.

New Jersey has been fighting either to overturn the federal ban or to find a way to work around it since 2011, when voters in the state approved a nonbinding resolution to allow sports betting. The effort has since been supported by Democratic and Republican legislators as a way to help shore up the sagging Atlantic City casinos and state racetracks.

But the effort was met with lawsuits from the N.C.A.A. and the four major sports leagues after Mr. Christie signed a law in 2014 to allow sports betting. The challenges wound their way through numerous lower courts, finally reaching the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit in Philadelphia, which issued a ruling last year upholding the federal ban.

In a news conference in Trenton on Tuesday, Mr. Christie said he was “thrilled” by the decision of the court.

“The fact that the Supreme Court granted cert. in this case is a very good sign for sports betting having a future in New Jersey,” he said. “I’m encouraged by it. We’re not declaring victory, but at least we’re in the game, and that’s what we want to be.”

The decision by the Supreme Court to hear the case comes as a bit of a surprise after Jeffrey B. Wall, the acting solicitor general of the United States, asked the court in May not to hear the case.

Numerous states, including Pennsylvania, New York and California, have recently pushed bills to legalize sports betting. Sports betting podcasts like “Against All Odds” regularly crack the top sports charts on iTunes. Daily fantasy sports sites like DraftKings and FanDuel, which offer a very specific type of sports wagering, remain quite popular.

At stake is a significant amount of money. In Nevada, where sports betting is legal, it is now an industry of nearly $5 billion a year. Industry and law enforcement officials estimate that more than $150 billion is placed annually with illegal bookmakers and with offshore accounts.

With that much at stake, the American Gaming Association announced the creation of a coalition this month encompassing attorneys general, the police, policy makers and others to advocate a repeal of the federal ban.

“We are pleased the Supreme Court appears to have responded favorably to our arguments as to why they should hear this important case,” said Geoff Freeman, the president and chief executive of the gaming association. “And we are hopeful their engagement will provide further encouragement for Congress to take the steps necessary to create a regulated sports betting marketplace in the United States.”

In a recent meeting with reporters for The New York Times, Mr. Freeman said his organization had detected a new willingness among the sports leagues to make sports betting legal. Adam Silver, the commissioner of the N.B.A., has been forthright in calling for legal betting and the openness that accompanies it. Rob Manfred, the commissioner of Major League Baseball, has acknowledged that a sports betting market would continue to fuel fan interest in baseball.

The N.F.L., long an opponent of the bill, has signaled a softening of that stance in recent months with the commissioner, Roger Goodell, saying the league’s thinking on sports gambling was “evolving,” a shift underscored in March when team owners approved the move of the Oakland Raiders to Las Vegas.

Mr. Freeman, however, acknowledged that the N.C.A.A. remained the most concerted opponent to legalized sports gambling, noting that collegiate athletes are unpaid amateurs. He said one possible solution would be to prohibit betting on college football and basketball.

The N.C.A.A. did not immediately comment on the decision by the Supreme Court to hear the case.

While the court has offered no indication of how it might rule or why it was moving forward with the case, some industry advocates viewed the decision as a sign that the federal ban might be nearing its end.

“Paspa’s days may be numbered,” said Daniel Wallach, a sports and gambling lawyer from Florida, who has tracked the case closely. "The court can overturn federal statute and provide a free and clear pathway for Congress to take this up. It’s the perfect time for the leagues, casino industry and Congress to come together, and I think it potentially opens sports betting up nationally by the 2018 N.F.L. season.”