Size still matters when it comes packaged in an unmatched amalgam of skill, strength, speed and smarts while garnished with the hustle of a fringe veteran treating every last play as if his next paycheck depended on it.

In an era of ball-dominating point guards and vanishing post players, LeBron James’s pursuit of Stephen Curry on Thursday night late in the fourth quarter of a game the Cleveland Cavaliers were already leading by 13 was an exclamation point to the convincing argument that James had already made about who remains the N.B.A.’s premier impact player.

James blocked Curry’s shot from behind and then got all mouthy about that and the rest of his concerto as the Cavaliers bullied the Golden State Warriors, sending the N.B.A. finals back to Oakland, Calif., for Sunday’s Game 7, a television ratings bonanza.

What had James said to Curry, bearer of the league’s last two Most Valuable Player Awards we know that James believes he deserved?

James dodged the question like a politician in a televised debate. Curry asked, “What did he say?” and then recalled the message as “nothing.”

How we revel in the spontaneous collisions of the game’s very best. Larry Bird once trash-talked Julius Erving into a Boston Garden flurry of stiff right-hand jabs. Michael Jordan and Magic Johnson had a memorable, if more lighthearted, exchange in Monte Carlo before the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain, after Johnson complained about a foul call during a Dream Team scrimmage.

“This may as well be Chicago Stadium,” he whined, referring to the Bulls’ now long-demolished arena.

To which Jordan deadpanned, “No, Magic, it’s the ‘90s.”

Jordan’s time, he meant, and that, too, was the essence of James’s uncharacteristic gloat. He made his league debut as an 18-year-old in 2003 and was here, at 31, to tell Curry that the 21st century’s second decade — awards and even championships notwithstanding — remains, for the sake of individual eminence, the court of the Akron, Ohio, king.

Going home, where they have lost four games all season, Curry and the Warriors still sit poised, if not as pretty, to win a second straight title. But the playoffs are a war of attrition, and James, 6 feet 8 inches and 250 pounds of evolutionary and seemingly indestructible athlete, has grown stronger, more resolute, as the Warriors have weakened after leading by three games to one.

Andre Iguodala, the long-armed defender who stood up nobly to James in last year’s finals and earlier this series, is struggling with back spasms. Harrison Barnes has crashed into a psychological wall and can’t hit a shot. Andrew Bogut, the lane-clogging center injured in Game 5, is gone.

Curry and his skinny bones seem held together by clips and glue after a grueling and injury-marred postseason. Even his trademark calm and body tranquillity surrendered to frustration and fury after he fouled out while trying to poke the ball from James.

Not for the first time in the series, Curry flung his mouthpiece, which hit a front-row fan, earning him his first N.B.A. ejection. He apologized to the fan, but it is time, finally, for him and the rest of the league to hear from Commissioner Adam Silver.

Gerald Wallace, now out of the league, popularized the unsightly and unsanitary dangling fad. The use of the mouthpiece as a projectile gives Silver the perfect excuse to issue an edict to keep it unseen, where it belongs.

James, meanwhile, mouthed his piece with a second straight 41-point game to go along with 11 assists, 4 steals and 3 blocked shots. From late in the third quarter to the seven-minute mark of the fourth, he scored 18 straight Cleveland points.

Remember James’s grudging response in May to Curry’s unanimous selection as M.V.P.? Before the finals, James said he should have kept his mouth shut, praised Curry as supremely deserving.

James was right, though, if not politically correct. Context is key. Curry has ridden a wave of popularity as an astonishingly entertaining and record-shattering long-distance shotmaker on a defending champion team that won a record 73 games.

But this series has been an unambiguous reiteration that James, when assertive, has no peer in the variety of ways he can defeat you.

“I do whatever it takes,” he said matter-of-factly after proving it statistically and otherwise, including what to date is the series’ pivotal moment — James stepping over Draymond Green near the end of Game 4.

Saying, in effect, to the impassioned Warrior who was one transgression from suspension: Hey, Draymond, care to check out my groin?

This Cleveland team is far better than the one James dragged to the 2007 finals to be swept by the San Antonio Spurs and much healthier than last year’s edition, which lost to the Warriors in six games.

It is also no powerhouse. Kyrie Irving has been the offensive stress reliever for James since Game 3. Tristan Thompson has vacuumed offensive rebounds. Richard Jefferson has been a role-playing revelation.

But J. R. Smith remains an enigmatic ex-Knick, Channing Frye can’t guard the pick-and-roll and Kevin Love attests to James’s principal flaw as a de facto front office executive who lobbied for a misguided trade.

If Cleveland is to celebrate its first major professional sports title since 1964 and the Cavaliers are to become the first team to win an N.B.A title after trailing by three games to one, James will most likely need one more virtuoso performance to earn the signature achievement of his already storied career.

Win this title and those murals in Cleveland of James with his arms raised high will stay forever, whether he — with free agency possible this summer or next — does or not.

In winning six titles in eight years, Jordan never had to play in a seventh game of the finals. He also never had to overcome the odds James was facing after Game 4, against the most credentialed regular-season team in league history.

On the Golden State side, Curry has become a little too, well, cavalier. He needs to clean up and energize his game. To make sure, as the Warriors’ point guard, that Klay Thompson, especially, gets the opportunities to make shots, early and often, that James has allowed Irving.

The affirmation of a legacy awaits Sunday night’s winner. For Curry and the Warriors, no one will care about how shaken they were in Games 5 and 6 if they complete — or authenticate — their 73-victory season.

For James and the Cavs, it would be title deliverance to northeast Ohio at last, James’s repudiation of Thomas Wolfe’s contention that you can’t go home again.

On second thought, he has dutifully done that already. Perhaps the most compelling and perhaps the biggest game of his life — though he did win a Game 7 in Miami over the Spurs three years ago — will be played on the road.

“I can’t wait,” he said Thursday night, his eyes and expression convincing all that he was ready to chase Curry across the country the way he ran him down late in the fourth quarter of Game 6.

MIAMI — Dwyane Wade had a night off recently, so he watched basketball on television. The Oklahoma City Thunder were looking to close out the San Antonio Spurs on Thursday night in the Western Conference semifinals, and Wade was struck by the way the game developed.

Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook were explosive in Oklahoma City’s victory, which came as no surprise to Wade, who has dabbled in the art of clutch performances. But Durant and Westbrook also received some vital help from Andre Roberson, a third-year swingman who scored 14 points. In the previous five games of the series, he had scored 4 — total.

“Roberson was the one who put his imprint on that game,” Wade said, “and really had one of those special games that took them over the hump.”

It was Friday morning, hours ahead of the Miami Heat’s game here against the Toronto Raptors that night in the Eastern Conference semifinal, and Wade, a perennial N.B.A. All-Star like Durant and Westbrook, openly wondered which unsung teammate would emerge for Miami. Someone, in the parlance of pro sports, would need to step up. Someone. Somehow.

Sure enough, with their season teetering on the edge, with their roster shredded by injuries, the Heat evened the series at three games apiece thanks to a couple of surprising performances. Goran Dragic, an experienced guard, scored 30 points, which might not have come as a complete shock. But what about Justise Winslow, a first-year forward who started at center and proceeded to change the tenor of the game? Their efforts were a welcome diversion from a series that had, until then, been an inartistic, defense-minded slog.

“We feel like when we play more aggressive and when everybody’s attacking, that’s our game,” Dragic said.

In a move born of equal parts circumstance and desperation, Coach Erik Spoelstra went small against the Raptors, who could neither defend the perimeter nor slow the Heat’s penetration. The result was a lost opportunity for the Raptors to finish off the series on the road — and another chance for Wade to concoct some of his familiar playoff magic.

Game 7 is scheduled for Sunday afternoon in Toronto. Wade is fluent in the language of elimination games. In his career, he has played in seven Games 7s and come away with five wins. Perhaps the city of Toronto has reason to feel nervous.

“You’re either going to continue playing, or your season is over,” Wade said. “That’s the reality of it. So you got to give a little more, and you got to do a little more.”

Then again, what do either of these teams have left? Both were pushed to seven games in the first round. Now, they might as well be clubbing each other with cartoon-size mallets as they vie for the opportunity to face the Cleveland Cavaliers — the extraordinarily well-rested Cleveland Cavaliers, who have yet to lose a playoff game — in the conference finals.

For Wade, of course, a meeting with the Cavaliers would be a reunion of sorts with his close friend and former teammate LeBron James. But while Wade continues to push himself to exhaustion, James has not appeared in uniform since May 8, a rare luxury in the middle of a playoff grind.

The Heat, who are doing all they can to finally escape James’s shadow, showed plenty of resolve in Friday’s 103-91 victory. At the team’s morning shootaround, Spoelstra informed his players that he planned to start Winslow at center. Hassan Whiteside, who usually occupies that role, was out with a sprained right knee, and Spoelstra wanted to generate offense.

“You never know how it’s going to work,” Spoelstra said.

The move reminded Wade of the 2012 N.B.A. finals. In that series, Spoelstra sought to space the floor against the Thunder by playing Shane Battier at power forward and center. On offense, Battier tended to roam to the 3-point line, which put Serge Ibaka, his primary defender, in difficult spots.

“Ibaka was a big guy who would come to the rim, and Shane would have all day to shoot 3s,” Wade said before pivoting to Spoelstra’s most recent handiwork. “It’s just unconventional. Sometimes unconventional works. It’s not your traditional big man-big man lineup.”

On Friday, the Raptors’ Bismack Biyombo, a 6-foot-9 center, played the role of Ibaka as Winslow operated along the perimeter, scoring 12 points. More important, Winslow lured Biyombo away from the rim. That created room for Dragic, who found seams to the basket, and for Wade, who finished with 22 points. It was all connected.

“We were all spaced out, and they kind of got to go where they wanted to go,” Raptors Coach Dwane Casey said, adding, “We didn’t adjust to it.”

If Spoelstra gambled by going small, there were a couple of mitigating factors. First, the Raptors were without their own starting center, Jonas Valanciunas, who sprained his right ankle in Game 3. So even though the Heat were still at a size disadvantage, they remained competitive on the glass.

Also, Spoelstra trusted Winslow to deliver. His playing time in the series has been sporadic. In fact, after Winslow failed to leave the bench in Game 3, Spoelstra called him that night to assure him that he would have a role going forward.

“He approaches his profession and competition like he’s a 30-year-old veteran,” Spoelstra said.

The Raptors are still searching for their first trip to the conference finals in franchise history, but they will need to find more balance. On Friday, DeMar DeRozan and Kyle Lowry combined for 59 points. No one else scored more than 8.

The Heat, on the other hand, figured out how to let some of their lesser lights shine.

“This is the path,” Spoelstra said. “You have to embrace competition, attack it and then find different ways to try to win.”

Pat Summitt, who was at the forefront of a broad ascendance of women’s sports, winning eight national basketball championships at the University of Tennessee and more games than any other Division I college coach, male or female, died on Tuesday. She was 64.

Her death was confirmed on the website of the Pat Summitt Foundation.

Summitt stepped down after 38 seasons and 1,098 victories at Tennessee in April 2012, at 59, less than a year after she learned she had early-onset Alzheimer’s disease.

Over nearly four decades, Summitt helped transform women’s college basketball from a sport ignored by the National Collegiate Athletic Association into one that drew national television audiences and paid its most successful coaches more than $1 million a year.

“In modern history, there are two figures that belong on the Mount Rushmore of women’s sports — Billie Jean King and Pat Summitt,” Mary Jo Kane, a sports sociologist at the University of Minnesota, said in 2011. “No one else is close to third.”

Summitt, who was inducted into the Women’s Basketball Hall of Fame in 1999 and the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2000, was a trailblazer, ambassador and missionary. She was a co-captain of the 1976 women’s Olympic team, which won a silver medal, then guided the United States to gold as head coach at the 1984 Games in Los Angeles. All of her players who completed their eligibility at Tennessee also graduated, university officials said.

Through much of her tenure at Tennessee, Summitt was willing to play any opponent, on any court, at any time. She opened her locker room to television cameras and gave viewers an unfiltered look at her demanding style, her steely glare and her unapologetically withering remarks to her players and to referees. Her hands pounded the court with such intensity that she sometimes flattened the rings on her fingers and had to have them rerounded in the off-season.

Her childhood on a Tennessee farm lent Summitt a rural hardiness. When she gave birth to her only child, Tyler, in 1990, she went into labor while on a recruiting trip in Pennsylvania and urged the pilots to fly her home so her son would be born in Tennessee.

A month before she won her final championship, in 2008, Summitt dislocated her shoulder while shoving a raccoon off the deck of her home in Knoxville, then tried for two hours to reset her shoulder before calling a doctor. Her best teams displayed a similar toughness and determination, playing with ravenous attention to defense and rebounding.

“There may be coaches that win more than Pat, but there will never be another Pat Summitt,” Baylor Coach Kim Mulkey said.

She was born Patricia Sue Head on June 14, 1952, in Clarksville, Tenn. The fourth of five children, she slept in a baby bed until she was 6. Her farmer father, Richard Head, was a disciplinarian who, she recalled, admonished his children that “cows don’t take a day off.”

During the day, she joined her three older brothers in baling hay and chopping tobacco. At night, she played basketball against her brothers and neighbors.

“I was the only girl,” Summitt once said. “They beat me up, but it made me tougher.”

Title IX, the federal law that prohibited discrimination in schools based on gender, was passed in 1972, but expanded opportunities for female athletes came haltingly. The N.C.A.A. did not begin sponsoring women’s basketball until 1982, 43 years after it held its first postseason tournament for men.

Still, the women’s game thrived in rural enclaves in states like Tennessee and Texas, where girls who worked on farms could not be told with any seriousness that they lacked the endurance to play sports.

Summitt attended the University of Tennessee at Martin and, upon graduating in 1974, became head coach at the University of Tennessee’s flagship campus in Knoxville. At 22, she was barely older than her players.

In football country, she made $250 a month to coach basketball and attend graduate school. She held a doughnut sale to help pay for the team uniforms, which she washed herself. Her team once slept on mats at an opponent’s gym because there was no money for a hotel.

She drove the team van to games, so intent on winning that “we never even stopped at McDonald’s,” said Holly Warlick, who played for Summitt at Tennessee, served as a longtime assistant and succeeded her as head coach.

Summitt’s first game at Tennessee ended in a 1-point defeat. When she phoned her parents to give them the news, she recalled, her father offered a bit of advice: “Tricia, don’t take donkeys to the Kentucky Derby” — meaning that the best coaches recruited the top players. For most of 38 seasons, she did.

Her two biggest stars, Chamique Holdsclaw of Queens and Candace Parker of suburban Chicago, led the Lady Vols to five of Summitt’s eight national titles and are considered two of the best women’s collegiate players of all time. Summitt’s best team, guided by Holdsclaw and reliant on relentless offense and aggressive defense, finished 39-0 to win the national title in 1998. To that point, no women’s team had won as many games in a season.

As the number of championships climbed, so did Summitt’s salary, eventually reaching $1.25 million a year. She was once approached by Tennessee officials about coaching the men’s team. She dismissed the overture, asking, “Why is that considered a step up?”

Summitt’s marriage of 27 years to R. B. Summitt, a banker, ended in divorce in 2008.

Her survivors include her son, Tyler, who was the women’s coach at Louisiana Tech before resigning this year over what was described as “an inappropriate relationship,” widely reported to be with one of his players; her mother, Hazel Albright Head; her sister, Linda Atteberry; and her brothers, Kenneth, Tommy and Charles Head.

Summitt’s eighth and final national title came in 2008, three short of the 11 titles won by Geno Auriemma, who coaches the Connecticut women’s team.

Summitt remained insatiable for victory, and defeat left her inconsolable. The low point of her career came with a stunning loss to Ball State in the first round of the 2009 N.C.A.A. tournament. At the time, Tennessee was the two-time defending national champion. None of Summitt’s teams had left the tournament so early. Afterward, she returned to her hotel room and watched replays all night.

“I didn’t sleep,” she later said. “I was so mad I threw things at the TV, yelled, screamed, cried.”

The next day, the Lady Vols returned to campus and Summitt made them practice, even though the season was over.

Summitt received the only sustained criticism of her career in 2007, when she canceled the annual games between Tennessee and Connecticut, a rivalry matched in college basketball only by that between the Duke and North Carolina men’s teams. She cited her concern with UConn’s recruiting of Maya Moore, who led the Huskies to two national titles and a record 90-game winning streak.

UConn did receive a slap on the wrist from the N.C.A.A. for arranging a tour for Moore of ESPN’s studios in Bristol, Conn. But that was considered a minor rules violation. Some sports commentators, and even some of Summitt’s former players, felt that she had put her personal conflict with Auriemma, the UConn coach, ahead of the overall good of women’s basketball.

“I am who I am,” Summitt said. “I will not compromise. No one is going to talk me into doing something I don’t want to do, when I know what I have been doing is by the book.”

Summitt began to notice changes in herself during the 2010-11 season. She grew forgetful during games; she lost track of meetings. After the season, she visited the Mayo Clinic, and doctors found that she had early-onset Alzheimer’s.

Summitt coached through the 2011-12 season, although her three assistant coaches assumed most of her duties during practices and games. The Lady Vols struggled at times but still came within one victory of reaching the Final Four. Shortly after the season, Summitt retired as head coach. She started a foundation to raise awareness about dementia.

Her memoir, “Sum It Up” (written with Sally Jenkins), was a best seller in 2013.

The Knicks’ steady descent into chaos continued Sunday afternoon in Toronto, where forward Carmelo Anthony punctuated the team’s blowout loss to the Raptors by lashing out at the team’s management.

Anthony opened the door to a possible departure from the Knicks by telling reporters that if Phil Jackson, the team president, no longer wanted him around, then it was a “conversation we should have.”

Anthony’s comments came in response to questions from reporters about a column by Charley Rosen, a former assistant coach under Jackson and a longtime Jackson confidante, that was published on the website FanRag. In the column, Rosen wrote that Anthony had “outlived his usefulness in New York,” that his legs were “going, going, almost gone” and that Anthony would be willing to waive the no-trade clause in his contract to land with a contender.

On Sunday, after the Knicks trailed the Raptors by as many as 38 points in falling, 116-101, at Air Canada Centre, Anthony said that he remained committed to the Knicks and denied that he had even considered waiving his no-trade clause. At the same time, he seemed to suggest that the views in Rosen’s column could have come directly from team officials.

“Listen, if that’s how they feel, if that’s coming from that side, then that’s what’s coming from that side,” Anthony told reporters. “I haven’t thought once about that, to be honest with you. I hear it. I hear all the rhetoric that’s going on out there.”

The last time Jackson spoke to the reporters who regularly cover the team was in the preseason. His most recent public comments came via Twitter on Dec. 27, when he announced the end of his romantic relationship with Jeanie Buss, the president of the Los Angeles Lakers.

Jackson has otherwise remained silent throughout his team’s recent struggles. The Knicks have lost 10 of their last 12 games, a miserable stretch that has featured no shortage of drama — underscored by point guard Derrick Rose’s unexcused absence from a loss to the New Orleans Pelicans last week. Jackson has not commented on that situation, either.

At the midway point of the season, the Knicks are 18-23 and several games out of playoff contention.

Anthony, 32, whose contract with the Knicks runs through the 2018-19 season, is averaging 22 points a game while shooting 42.6 percent from the field. There have been a number of games when he has carried the team, but he has appeared to show his age in others.

Anthony and Jackson have not had the best working relationship this season. In December, Anthony was annoyed after Jackson criticized him in an interview with CBS Sports Network for sometimes holding on to the ball too long.

Eventually, the two met in Los Angeles during a trip to smooth things over. But now an even bigger rift may have opened.

At one major university, a sports agent arranged for a quid pro quo among Adidas, the college’s men’s basketball program and a top high school prospect in which the player’s family would receive $100,000 if he committed to the school and signed with the apparel giant once he turned pro.

At another college, the basketball team’s associate head coach accepted nearly $100,000 to steer his team’s top players to a financial adviser eager to manage their future N.B.A. riches. At a third, a top assistant set up a similar arrangement, promising to trade his access to players for bribes.

“Some of it can’t be completely accounted for on paper,” the sports agent said in urging discretion about one of the deals, “because some of it is, whatever you want to call it, illegal.”

Update: Rick Pitino has been ousted by Louisville one day after the criminal complaints were announced.

These and many more allegations were revealed in a series of complaints made public by federal investigators in New York on Tuesday. The complaints depict a thriving black market for teenage athletes, one in which coaches, agents, financial advisers and shoe company employees trade on the trust of players and exploit their inability to be openly compensated because of N.C.A.A. amateurism rules.

College basketball has a long, baroque history of malfeasance involving under-the-table deals, but rarely, if ever, have federal investigators exposed such widespread corruption. The closest analogue is probably the point-shaving scandals of the early 1950s, said Rodney K. Smith, a law professor who has studied the history of the N.C.A.A.

“For these men, bribing coaches was a business investment,” Joon H. Kim, the acting United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said while announcing federal bribery, fraud and other corruption charges. “They knew corrupt coaches, in return for bribes, would pressure the players to use their services. They also knew that if and when those young players turned pro, that would mean big bucks for them.”

This vision of what Kim called “the dark underbelly of college basketball” led to the arrests of nearly a dozen people, including four Division I assistant coaches and the global marketing director for Adidas basketball. Kim said the investigation was continuing, and the disclosures made on Tuesday seemed to promise further revelations of wrongdoing that could upend one of the country’s most popular sports, whose annual tournament provides the N.C.A.A. with the vast majority of its income.

Across three complaints, two broad schemes were alleged. One involved bribing four assistant coaches — at Arizona, Auburn, Oklahoma State and Southern California, all programs in the so-called Power 5 conferences of college sports — to persuade players to send business to certain financial advisers once they turned professional. The other involved efforts to secretly funnel money from Adidas to three players and their families in exchange for the players’ commitments to play at two Adidas-sponsored college programs and to later sign sponsorship deals with the company once they turned pro.

The latter complaint said a senior Adidas executive, Jim Gatto, was in on an agreement to pay about $100,000 to the family of “Player-10,” a heavily recruited high school standout, to steer him to a particular college. While neither the player nor the university was named, descriptions of the institution matched the University of Louisville, which this summer signed a 10-year, $160 million apparel contract with Adidas. Louisville’s men’s basketball program is currently on N.C.A.A. probation over a scandal in which prostitutes were used to entice recruits in on-campus housing (the university is appealing some of those penalties, which were announced in June).

Adidas said in a statement: “Today, we became aware that federal investigators arrested an Adidas employee. We are learning more about the situation. We’re unaware of any misconduct and will fully cooperate with authorities to understand more.”

Louisville’s interim president, Gregory C. Postel, confirmed his university’s involvement in the investigation. “While we are just learning about this information,” Postel said in a statement, “this is a serious concern that goes to the heart of our athletic department and the university.” He added that Louisville was “committed to ethical behavior and adherence to N.C.A.A. rules.”

Payments were discussed for other players’ families as well, the complaint says, including one who had not yet begun his junior year of high school and another who was to receive $150,000 to enroll at a college whose description matches the University of Miami, another Adidas-sponsored college. Miami said in a statement that it, too, would cooperate with investigators if asked. The coach of an Adidas-sponsored grass-roots team in Florida — a pre-college squad outside of the high school structure — was among those charged.

In the first scheme, one complaint charged that Chuck Person, the associate head coach at Auburn, abused his coaching position to solicit and obtain bribes from a financial adviser and business manager for professional athletes. In return, he agreed to direct certain players from his program to the adviser when the players entered the N.B.A. Person accepted a total of $91,500 in the case, the complaint said, and is accused of passing on about $18,500 to the families of two athletes.

Kim emphasized the trust that young players had put in their coaches and noted that Person had boasted of one player: “He listens to one person — that is me.”

The other complaint charged the other three assistant coaches with solicitation of bribery for accepting payments to steer players. The coaches named are Lamont Evans, an assistant at Oklahoma State and a former assistant at South Carolina; Emanuel Richardson, an assistant at Arizona; and Tony Bland, an assistant at U.S.C.

All three, and Person, have been suspended, their programs announced Tuesday in separate statements.

The N.C.A.A. president, Mark Emmert, was caught off guard by Tuesday morning’s announcement but pledged his organization’s support. “Coaches hold a unique position of trust with student-athletes and their families and these bribery allegations, if true, suggest an extraordinary and despicable breach of that trust,” Emmert said.

Tuesday’s revelations all but ensured a renewed debate about two rules central to college basketball. One is the N.C.A.A.’s longstanding restrictions on compensation, a central part of college sports that has been under attack in recent years by polemicists, antitrust lawsuits and even some players.

The other is the so-called one-and-done rule, agreed to jointly by the N.B.A. and its players’ union, which generally prohibits players from entering the league before they have turned 19 or until a year after they graduate from high school.

Before the rule’s implementation, the best high school basketball players in each class had the option of simply entering the N.B.A. and receiving a salary, as well as lucrative endorsement deals, and above all not needing to worry themselves over N.C.A.A. rules.

Those restrictions, combined with the increasing pressure to rack up wins fueled by billion-dollar television deals, created an incentive, some said, for coaches to break the rules to secure top talent. In that environment, said a person familiar with top-level college basketball, who was granted anonymity to discuss rule-breaking, $100,000 for a five-star prospect was “a pretty good investment.”

The cases were brought with the aid of a cooperating witness against whom the Securities and Exchange Commission had brought securities charges, including misusing professional athletes’ funds. Two undercover F.B.I. agents posing as financial advisers were also involved. The witness was Martin Blazer, a former financial adviser based in Pittsburgh, the United States attorney’s office said. The investigation used judicially approved wiretaps, and began in 2015.

The complaints did not implicate any head coaches, perhaps for reasons explained by one of the defendants in an audio recording of a secret meeting. According to a transcript of comments by the defendant, an agent named Christian Dawkins, the path to securing commitments from college athletes went through assistant coaches, because head coaches “ain’t willing” to take bribes, “ ‘cause they’re making too much money. And it’s too risky.”

Illegal inducements and benefits to athletes come as no surprise to followers of college sports, and the N.C.A.A. has long struggled to police rules violations at its member universities. Many times, the violations have been exposed in vivid detail: department store discounts for Florida State football players; cash payments to Michigan’s so-called Fab Five; trades of tattoos for autographs at Ohio State.

Louisville was punished for the prostitute scandal in June, when the N.C.A.A. placed the Cardinals  on probation, suspended Coach Rick Pitino for five games and ordered the university to forfeit what could be dozens of games — potentially including the Cardinals’ 2013 national championship. Those sanctions were announced June 15 — less than two weeks, Tuesday’s complaint claimed, after a Louisville coach is accused of taking part in the plan to funnel $100,000 to the all-American recruit.

The complaints announced Tuesday also included tantalizing clues indicating that what was alleged is merely the tip of the iceberg. Dawkins, for example, urged that the payment to a player’s family be increased because one of Adidas’s rivals was “coming in with a higher number.”

Tamika Catchings is planning to retire after this W.N.B.A. season, and she will leave an immeasurable void on the Indiana Fever roster.

After her final regular-season game Sunday against the Dallas Wings, Catchings finished as the league’s career leader in rebounds and steals and as its second-highest scorer. She was selected to 11 All-Star teams and seven All-W.N.B.A. first teams, was a five-time defensive player of the year, and was recognized in June as one of the league’s 20 greatest players.

Catchings’s absence will also be felt by opposing players. Although they will not miss her lockdown defense and her spinning past them en route to the basket, Catchings has been president of the players’ union since 2004.

“I remember in the beginning being so scared,” Catchings said. “For me, it was such a daunting task, like, ‘Oh my gosh, I’ve got to represent all these players.’”

Catchings assumed leadership when the W.N.B.A. was still defining itself within American professional sports. In 2004, the league felt the effects of two franchises folding and two teams relocating. Catchings and other union leaders, including Ruth Riley and the current Liberty forward Swin Cash, worked to establish a new foundation for a union that could serve as a first point of contact for players’ professional, and even personal, issues.

“Ruth Riley, Tamika Catchings and myself, we had a lot over the last decade that was on our shoulders — tough C.B.A. negotiations, certain recessions that were happening in the country and in sports. It was a lot to learn,” said Cash, referring to collective bargaining agreements.

Cash, who is also retiring after this season, added: “We’re always on call. There’s never an off button.”

After the 2008 collective bargaining agreement was signed, Catchings acknowledged in an interview that “the league is not really making money at this point,” and that players could not demand million-dollar salaries. Instead, finding ways for incremental success was necessary.

“There’s some things that you’re not going to be able to get,” Catchings said. “Like, O.K., salary. Everybody wants a higher salary, of course — we all do — but what does that look like? So, I think for us, it’s always been just about, What kind of issues can we deal with?”

The past two collective bargaining agreements, including the most recent one from 2014, have introduced fewer restrictions on players who compete overseas in the winter, small annual salary increases and additional roster spots for each team. There have also been more subtle changes like individual hotel rooms for veterans on road trips.

Cash said she and Catchings frequently discussed the gratification of watching a younger generation of players become more involved in the union and wanting to dictate their future.

In previous years, it was not uncommon for players to call Catchings and other union leaders in the middle of the night, or while playing overseas, looking for explanations of rules and contracts or help settling disagreements with agents.

“She just carries over what she does on the court, being president,” said Stefanie Dolson, a third-year Washington Mystics center and the team’s union representative. “She’s the leader, she makes decisions, and she’s confident in the decisions she makes. She’s very good at finding out everyone’s opinions, she’s open to them, and she does a great job of just making sure the players are taken care of and the league is thriving.”

As the union was solidifying its ground under Catchings, it also had to deal with difficulties affecting the N.B.A. players’ union. In 2013, Billy Hunter, the executive director of the N.B.A. players’ union, was fired after his business practices drew the ire of players and resulted in investigations by government agencies.

“People don’t understand that when the men went through their whole public situation and Billy Hunter leaving, the trickle effect that happened on the women’s side,” Cash said. “We even had to clean house ourselves and really restructure.”

The W.N.B.A. players’ union has hired two new directors of operations since December 2014. Terri Carmichael Jackson, who took the job in May, said Catchings had been vital in helping her transition.

“Tamika has a leadership style that’s inclusive, that’s committed to building consensus and committed to diversity,” Jackson said. “At the end of the day, she’s my boss, and to be able to have a one-on-one with your boss, to ensure that you are on track with her expectations and overall mission of an organization, is very important. She has never ever hesitated to do that, or make those conversations happen. Not every employee gets that.”

According to Lisa M. Borders, the W.N.B.A. president, Catchings is one of the most influential players in league history.

“With her knowledge of the game, and open mind, she has been instrumental in helping to foster healthy relations between the players and the league over the course of her remarkable 15-year career,” Borders said.

A key moment in the union’s maturation came earlier this season, when players joined in protests in support of the Black Lives Matter movement and issued calls to curb gun violence in the United States.

The Fever, the Liberty and the Phoenix Mercury were fined $5,000, and each player involved was fined $500 for wearing shirts during warm-ups that were not league-approved apparel. After continued disapproval from players throughout the league, the fines were rescinded.

“The thing that I’m most proud of as of late is with the Black Lives Matter and just kind of how we all stood united and had a uniformed front,” Catchings said. “That is something that we haven’t really had in the past. It was kind of like pulling teeth and trying to get players engaged. But now I feel like, as we leave, the union is in a better place.”

Jackson added: “It also demonstrated to those on the other side of the table, these players are to be respected and be taken seriously. Not that they weren’t before, but it further emphasized that point.”

Before the Rio de Janeiro Olympics, Catchings joined Knicks forward Carmelo Anthony in Los Angeles for a town-hall meeting to further discuss violence by, and against, police officers.

The Fever will host a first-round playoff game on Wednesday against the Phoenix Mercury, but on Sunday, Catchings was celebrated for her influence on basketball and the Indianapolis community. Indiana Pacers forward Paul George bought 5,000 tickets to give away to fans.

Also in attendance was Lin Dunn, who coached Catchings and the Fever for seven seasons, winning a championship in 2012, when Catchings was named the most valuable player of the finals. In recalling Catchings’s life earlier this week, Dunn noted how, as a child, Catchings was shy, often being teased for having a hearing impairment, a fact she now openly embraces.

“She realized it didn’t have to be an impediment and could use that as a catalyst for being a role model for overcoming adversity,” Dunn said. “It kind of set her free to let her voice be heard. I think the players not only respect her, they trust her. They reach out to her for help. She’s done a great job being available as a resource. She’s maybe the best ever because of all she did on the court, but my goodness gracious, look at what she did off the court.”