Pittsburgh Coach Mike Tomlin said Tuesday that he regretted the language he had used to describe the New England Patriots, but he was equally upset with Steelers wide receiver Antonio Brown for live streaming Tomlin’s postgame speech on social media.

Tomlin said it was “foolish” and “selfish” of Brown to stream more than 15 minutes of Pittsburgh’s giddy locker room after Sunday’s playoff win over Kansas City.

Tomlin said that Brown, an All-Pro wide receiver, would be punished “swiftly” but added that he would be available for Sunday’s A.F.C. championship game against the Patriots.

In the video, Tomlin used several profanities, including one directed at New England because the Patriots will have an extra day of preparation by virtue of having beaten Houston the day before Pittsburgh ousted Kansas City.

FIELD FOR 49ERS’ JOB IS DOWN TO ONE The search for a new San Francisco 49ers coach has narrowed to Kyle Shanahan, Atlanta’s offensive coordinator, after the only other remaining candidate, Tom Cable, pulled out of consideration.

Doug Hendrickson, the agent for Cable, Seattle’s offensive line coach, wrote on Twitter that Cable was “reaffirming” his commitment to the Seahawks and thanked the 49ers for their interest.

The University of Oregon suspended the strength and conditioning coach Irele Oderinde for one month without pay after three players were hospitalized following a series of intense workouts last week.

The university said in a statement that all future workouts had been modified and announced that the strength and conditioning coach would now report to Andrew Murray, the director of performance and sports science, instead of Coach Willie Taggart, who apologized in the statement.

Fifth-seeded Kei Nishikori defeated Jeremy Chardy, 6-3, 6-4, 6-3, on Wednesday to reach the third round of the Australian Open for the seventh consecutive year.

Venus Williams became one of the first players to reach the third round by beating Stefanie Vögele, 6-3, 6-2, at Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne. The defending women’s champion, Angelique Kerber, marked her 29th birthday with a 6-2, 6-7 (3), 6-2 win over Carina Witthoeft.

Chris Paul, the Los Angeles Clippers’ All-Star point guard, was to have surgery on Wednesday to repair a torn ligament in his left thumb and was expected to miss six to eight weeks. Paul was injured in Monday night’s victory over the Oklahoma City Thunder. He is averaging 17.5 points, 9.7 assists and 5.3 rebounds per game, and he leads the N.B.A. with 2.25 steals per game.

RAPTORS 119, NETS 109 DeMar DeRozan had 36 points and 11 rebounds, Cory Joseph scored a career-high 33 points, and Toronto beat the Nets at Barclays Center. Brook Lopez had 28 points for the Nets, who have lost 11 in a row.

De’Aaron Fox scored 21 points, Malik Monk added 14, and No. 5 Kentucky beat host Mississippi State, 88-81.

Kentucky (16-2, 6-0 Southeastern Conference) seemed ready to cruise to victory after building a 66-49 lead midway through the second half, but Mississippi State (12-5, 3-2) responded with 13 straight points to make things interesting.

UCONN 98, TULSA 58 In a women’s game, Katie Lou Samuelson scored a career-high 34 points to help No. 1 Connecticut (17-0, 5-0 American Athletic Conference) win at Tulsa (5-13, 1-4) for the Huskies’ 92nd consecutive victory.

Beau Bennett scored with 2 minutes 17 seconds left to lift the visiting Devils to a 4-3 victory over the Minnesota Wild. Pavel Zacha, Adam Henrique and Kyle Palmieri scored for the Devils, who went 3-0-1 on their four-game trip. Cory Schneider made 32 saves.

Sam Allardyce secured his first victory as Crystal Palace’s manager by reaching the fourth round of the F.A. Cup.

Palace fell behind against Bolton, a third-tier team, but two goals from the substitute Christian Benteke clinched a 2-1 home victory that ended Allardyce’s five-match winless streak with Palace in all competitions.

INTER MILAN ADVANCES Jeison Murillo scored with a spectacular bicycle kick, and Antonio Candreva got the winner in extra time as Inter Milan beat visiting Bologna, 3-2, to advance to the Italian Cup quarterfinals.

GHANA TAKES ITS OPENER Andre Ayew scored on a penalty kick as Ghana, a four-time champion, beat Uganda by 1-0 in a lackluster opening to its bid for its first Africa Cup of Nations title in 35 years.

The Texas Rangers said they had agreed to a minor league contract with an invitation to spring training for Josh Hamilton, named the American League’s most valuable player in 2010.

Hamilton, 35, who has struggled with drug addiction, alcoholism and injuries, had his best years in Texas. He was released in August, closing the books on a five-year, $125 million deal he had signed with the Los Angeles Angels after the 2012 season. The Angels had traded Hamilton back to Texas after two injury-plagued years.

BAUTISTA LOOKS TO BE STAYING PUT Outfielder Jose Bautista is returning to the Toronto Blue Jays on a one-year deal, multiple news media outlets reported.  (REUTERS)

MCCOVEY PARDONED President Obama pardoned the San Francisco Giants Hall of Famer Willie McCovey on tax evasion charges. McCovey was sentenced in 1996 to two years of probation for evading taxes on baseball memorabilia.

When Muhammad Ali was not jabbing or dancing in the ring, he sometimes liked dabbling as an artist.

Now, 15 drawings by Ali are being donated to the Muhammad Ali Center in his hometown, Louisville, Ky. The Ali originals are coming from the foundation created by the artist LeRoy Neiman and his wife. Ali gave the artwork to Neiman, his longtime friend who died in 2012, as gifts. Ali’s works — done in pastel, water color, pen, marker and crayon — were created between 1964 and 2005.

After Kim Velsey, a lifelong runner, suffered a hamstring injury a year ago, she decided to take the opportunity to start visiting the boutique gyms that were proliferating around her apartment in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn. “Maybe this is going to be the new way,” she thought.

But Ms. Velsey’s fantasy of swanning from Pilates to trampoline to boot camp studio did not last long. When she showed up for one of her first sessions, a barre class, she settled into a spot next to a woman who told her that there was not enough space, and banished her to a spot across the room.

“It was in a corner, and we were doing all these bends, and I had to squeeze my body into an awkward angle, otherwise I would be hitting my neighbor’s butt with my butt,” said Ms. Velsey, 33, a freelance writer whose work appears in The New York Times and elsewhere. “It was really stressful.” The amenities weren’t that impressive, either. “You’re paying $32 and they don’t even have a shower — just dry shampoo and wet wipes?”

She has since started swimming laps at a Parks Department pool.

To go by the rise of ClassPass and the army of lissome “fitfluencers” on Instagram, one might assume this is an era of peak boutique fitness. “Athleisure” now enjoys Merriam-Webster status, and celebrity gawkers know where their favorite Jenner sister trains. Smaller gyms are the fastest-growing segment of the exercise business, with membership growth of 6.3 percent (double the industry average) from 2015 to 2016, according to the International Health, Racquet & Sportsclub Association.

But some body cognoscenti — the resistance band, if you will — are calling it quits on the sculpting and spinning circuit and taking up old-school physical pursuits that many of us think of as the preserve of childhood. They’re shooting hoops, picking up squash, playing tennis in city parks, swimming laps at the Y. And they may be getting a better workout.

“If you go to a class and you feel like you’re not working very hard or it seems too easy, it probably is,” said Roger Fielding, senior scientist and director of the nutrition, exercise physiology and sarcopenia laboratory at the U.S.D.A. Research Center on Aging at Tufts University in Boston. “There might be benefits of relaxing and getting centered, but in terms of the physical component, many classes probably involve less intensity than activities that raise your heart rate, like playing basketball or running.”

Those classic activities also tend to be cheaper. A spot at many of the miniature gyms of the moment, such as the P.Volve or SoulCycle’s tiny new Annex, can cost close to $40. Even ClassPass, the supposed bargain warehouse of group fitness, no longer offers New Yorkers an unlimited plan.

In these hyper-wired times with Twitter feeds and cable news bubbling over with outrage and anger, the impulse to engage in an activity that feels plucked from an analog era makes sense. Many of the gyms that cater to fashion models and investment bankers can feel like bastions of blowouts and entitlement, while public parks and recreation centers still welcome urban dwellers across every imaginable spectrum. The sense of democracy — and sweating with strangers from different backgrounds rather than folks we know from college or the school run — is a considerable draw at a time of heightened income disparity.

On a Sunday afternoon not long ago, a dozen young women filtered into a gym in a public school close to the Essex Street Market on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. They’d shown up for one of the most rigorous workouts going, a weekly pickup game called Downtown Girls Basketball. After a lightning round of running drills, the assembled artists, designers and students got down to 55 minutes of uninterrupted, cheeks-ablaze cardio.

As the group skipped, zigzagged and squeaked around the court, Aria McManus held back on the sidelines. Ms. McManus, 28, an art director and artist who organizes the group, was keeping the participants’ morale aloft (as well as documenting the moment for Instagram). “Hustle it!” she said. “All the way, all the way! So close!”

She has a mailing list of more than 300. “Childlike fun is so rare these days,” Ms. McManus said. “If you take winning out of the equation, it becomes so silly. If you stop and think about sports and ask, ‘What are we doing?,’ it’s like, ‘O.K., I’m running and I’m tripping and I’m really trying to make a basket.’ It’s very strange, which I love. And we get sweaty, a bonus.”

Farther west, fashion world denizens flock every other Thursday night to a fifth-floor, loft-like Chambers Street dance studio for Moves, a free-spirited dance class. It is run by Marisa Competello, whose floral design studio Meta Flora fills the designer Rachel Comey’s shop with off-kilter flower arrangements, and Lauren Gerrie, Marc Jacobs’s personal chef and a founder of the BigLittle Get Together catering company.

The main qualification is that they’ve both enjoyed dancing since childhood. “It’s funny, I just tried one of those boxing classes and realized there’s a real recipe to boutique fitness,” Ms. Competello said. “They’re dark and the music is superloud and someone is yelling at you over a microphone.”

Tapping into childhood joy is also a prime motivator for Dani Seitz, 27, a Canadian model who runs Lady Ballerz, a skills-oriented spinoff of Downtown Girls Basketball. Ms. Seitz’s mother was a basketball coach and she played the sport all the way through high school, until she began modeling and agents warned her not to keep playing because she might bruise. (Her current agency, Muse Models, does not share this view.)

She organizes monthly basketball conventions in a SoHo gym where female attendees practice the fundamentals of the game under the tutelage of a coach from the Parks Department.

In October, Ms. Seitz started a YouTube channel, with videos showing her practicing basics on outdoor basketball courts, dressed in what she calls “old-school phys ed fashion”— white socks hiked high, short shorts hiked even higher. The retro visuals call to mind 1980s French movies about teenagers, with a soupçon of vintage Jane Fonda.

“My videographer and I were inspired by the Wes Anderson vibe,” Ms. Seitz said. “We love his quirkiness. I’m all about that.”

Let us not forget the original gangster of unfussy fitness: the Y.M.C.A. The actor Ethan Hawke is a regular at the Y on Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn; so strong is his passion for it that he has lent his star power to an Instagram campaign, #SelfieWithSomebodyNew, to promote the athletic center.

“It’s really important for young people and for older people to cross-pollinate,” Mr. Hawke recently told People Magazine. We are living in a world, he said, where “there’s just so much division everywhere that one of the things the Y can do right now is raise their hands and say, ‘Hey, everybody’s welcome here.’”

Laurie Buck, a 50-something television producer and former habitué of “cliquey” yoga studios, now routinely treks from her home in the Prospect Lefferts Gardens neighborhood of Brooklyn to the Chinatown Y.M.C.A. Ms. Buck encounters exercisers of nearly every ethnicity and age group, she said, along with a smattering of “man buns and hipster freelance girls.”

After her swims, Ms. Buck likes to sit in the sauna with a crew of women several decades older than her who offer her lessons in Cantonese. “I learned how to say ‘hello’ and ‘goodbye’ and ‘my back hurts’ and ‘my knee is swollen,’” she said with a laugh. “They make me excited to get older.”

Then there is the slightly tonier network of old-school university and racket clubs in Midtown Manhattan. Dave Barry, a 37-year-old director of capital advisory at a financial firm, calls the prices of the boutique classes several female acquaintances have dragged him to “laughable.” Yet he ponies up over $3,000 annually for a membership to the New York Athletic Club, where he and a group of friends regularly meet to play squash.

“The club tries to support Olympians from some of the fringier sports, like fencing and judo, and you get a ton of N.B.A. players training there,” Mr. Barry said. “You can be lifting weights between a 75-year-old and an Olympic medalist in fencing, and Carmelo Anthony will be on the basketball court shooting hoops. It’s very old school, and that’s cool.”

Ms. Seitz finds old school so cool that she hopes eventually to open a rec center of her own. “They’ll wear pinnies and play tag and dodge ball and race across the monkey bars,” she said of her fantasy patrons. “They’ll feel happy, and walk away smiling.”

After corralling a defensive rebound midway through the fourth quarter, Jose Calderon peeked up and spotted Derrick Williams streaking down the left sideline.

Calderon heaved a diagonal two-handed pass from the opposite 3-point line toward the rim, and Williams, airborne, contorting his body like a cat, caught the ball near his right ear with two hands and hammered it through the hoop.

It was the most stirring play of the Knicks’ surprising 106-94 dismantling of the Chicago Bulls at Madison Square Garden. The Knicks had beaten the Bulls the night before in Chicago, and their victory Thursday gave them their first two-game winning streak since mid-January.

Carmelo Anthony produced a comprehensive offensive performance, with 26 points, 7 rebounds and 4 assists. Kristaps Porzingis continued his mini-revival, after a 29-point performance on Wednesday, with 19 points and 10 rebounds.

Late in a season of miscues and disappointments, the game represented a notable salve.

“There’s nothing we can do about our situation,” Anthony said about the Knicks’ 30-43 record. “We have to try to go out there and still win basketball games.”

Yet the attention of New York’s basketball community on Thursday was at least partly directed across town in Brooklyn, where LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers played the Nets, who won, 104-95. James and the Cavaliers will play the Knicks at the Garden on Saturday.

James, among the most magnetic forces in American sports, raised eyebrows this week when he talked about his friendship with Anthony in a Bleacher Report story and said that he would like to play at least one season on the same team as Anthony, Dwyane Wade and Chris Paul before their careers are over.

When asked on Wednesday about James’s hypothetical proposal, Anthony considered the premise lightheartedly. Joking that it was a far-fetched scenario, he said any such reunion would have to occur in a warm-weather city because the players would be nearing retirement age.

“Everybody dreams sometimes,” he told reporters. “Everybody has fantasies.”

Anthony then joked that he was adding fuel to the fire.

James and Anthony have ignited a cluster of combustible story lines this season, merely by talking or tweeting, with their every word being picked apart and analyzed by fans and observers.

James’s Cavaliers have failed to fully realize their championship potential. Anthony’s Knicks have failed to emerge from the league’s basement. People have wondered, then, whether they might ever leave their teams.

Earlier in the day, a short video surfaced online of James apparently mocking the hyperscrutiny of the news media. After the game, he said he did not pay the outside plotlines any mind.

“I love leading these guys,” James said of his team. “I really don’t get caught up in everything else, because I don’t read much, I don’t listen to anything outside of what we need to do, inside the four lines, that’s 94 feet. It doesn’t bother me.”

Anthony, too, said after his game that James was probably not sweating the discussion started by his remarks heading into their game on Saturday. “I don’t think he’s worried about that,” Anthony said.

At the Garden, the Knicks were facing a Bulls team that was clearly out of sorts, physically and mentally. Pau Gasol, who had a sore knee, could not play.

Anthony scored 10 points in the first quarter alone, showing his array of offensive moves, including a transition 3-pointer and a muscular turnaround basket in the post. He had three assists in the second quarter, finding Porzingis open for a couple of 3-pointers in quick succession.

With two minutes to go, the fans began to clap in appreciation of the performance. Calderon held the ball near midcourt. Williams, loitering near the left sideline, made a sudden move to the basket, behind the Bulls’ defense, and Calderon floated a pass to the rim. Williams, with his back to the hoop, caught the ball in front of his face and finished the reverse alley-oop dunk.

Williams threw his head back in joy. It was that sort of night.

There are plenty of explanations for the Oklahoma City Thunder’s failure over the last week to capitalize on their two-game advantage against the Golden State Warriors in the N.B.A.’s Western Conference Finals.

The TNT analyst Charles Barkley accused the Thunder of playing “hero ball.” Others have pointed to the Warriors’ hyperbolic shooting ability.

But there are those who insist that the Thunder’s downfall came at the hands of the enigmatic Bay Area rapper Lil B, known to fans as the Based God or simply BasedGod, who laid a curse on their star player Kevin Durant.

The hex has taken root in the imaginations of superstitious sports fans since Lil B made it public five years ago. After the Thunder lost Game 7 of the series on Monday, 96-88, the basketball-watching corners of social media erupted with memes crediting the loss to Lil B, many of them with the hashtag #BasedGodCurse. (They may even have outnumbered the Crying Jordans.)

The rapper patted himself on the back after the loss, scorned his doubters and retweeted a handful of the many memes sent his way.

Lil B, whose real name is Brandon Christopher McCartney, is a hyper-prolific artist who between 2009 and 2015 released nearly 50 albums and mixtapes, garnering adoration from legions of fans who endorsed his accepting, anything-goes “based” philosophy. Durant was not one of them: In 2011, he expressed disbelief that the rapper had gained any degree of relevance.

In response, months later, Lil B announced that he had laid a curse on Durant.

Since then, as the curse’s believers have noted, the Thunder have encountered a number of obstacles in their quest for a championship. After losing four games in a row to LeBron James and the Miami Heat in the 2012 N.B.A. finals, the team lost a star player to injury in three consecutive seasons.

Russell Westbrook exited the 2013 playoffs in the first round. Serge Ibaka sustained a calf injury before the 2014 Western Conference Finals. And in 2015, Durant was injured, leading the Thunder to miss the playoffs.

Lil B, meanwhile, continued to stoke publicity for his so-called powers. He rescinded the curse in 2012, only to signal later that it was still on. In 2014, he released an expletive-laced song targeting Durant, the video for which has been viewed nearly two million times on YouTube.

But despite Lil B’s supposed witchery, Oklahoma City appeared to have shaken off its woes in this year’s playoffs. Fielding a full complement of stars, the team shocked the San Antonio Spurs, winning the second-round series in six games before driving the Warriors to the brink of elimination with two double-digit wins in its home arena to earn a three-games-to-one lead.

At that point, Lil B seemed to acknowledge that his curse could be defeated, even expressing admiration for Durant for showing the heart to fight through it.

But it was not to be. As the Warriors held off the Thunder in the fourth quarter on Monday, praise and respect for the Based God began to ring out on Twitter. Even N.B.A. teams paid tribute. The official account of the Sacramento Kings, after an exchange with the rapper, told one fan, “We’re just trying to be as based as Lil B.”

In response, one fan predicted success for Sacramento in the season to come: “They winning the finals next year.”

You would be hard-pressed to find someone more devoted to the Cleveland Browns than Jeff Stemler. He exulted over the wins. After losses, he was so angry that he couldn’t speak. The team was part of his identity.

It started in his childhood, when the quarterback Brian Sipe led the Browns to improbable last-minute victories. As an adult, Mr. Stemler became a season-ticket holder. He cried when the team moved to Baltimore in 1995, and he found love again when the National Football League awarded Cleveland with a new Browns franchise in 1998.

But somehow, after hundreds of Sundays at the stadium or in the television glow, it all came to an end. It wasn’t because the Browns were bad, necessarily. It was something else. Something deeper.

Mr. Stemler, a 47-year-old landscape supplies salesman in Columbus, Ohio, pinpoints the moment to a Sunday in October 2014, when the Browns thumped the Pittsburgh Steelers, 31-10. As giddy fans spoke of a new era in Cleveland, Mr. Stemler felt nothing. “Is this really what makes me happy?” he asked himself.

“Everyone is going nuts, and I’m just kind of sitting there,” Mr. Stemler added. “I remember this guy looking at me and asking: ‘What’s wrong? Why aren’t you excited?’”

The strange feeling did not go away.

“I think I have gotten to a point in my life where I need to let things go that don’t bring me enjoyment,” he said. “I think as you get older, you realize you don’t hang on to things that don’t bring you joy. If it’s not making me happy, then why do it? Don’t just do it because you feel like you should be doing it. That’s what I was doing — I was going up every Sunday for the Browns, and I was dreading it.”

Most fans develop a bond with a team as children. For reasons that may go unquestioned, they stick with it, no matter the emotional toll. In the view of the New Yorker writer and editor Roger Angell, our connection to sports is ultimately tied to caring: “deeply and passionately, really caring — which is a capacity or an emotion that has almost gone out of our lives,” he wrote in 1975.

But then there are those fans who begin to question why they care so much. Once doubt takes hold, they wonder why they spend so much time and emotion on mere games. Before they know it, they are on a path that takes them away from the majority culture for whom sports adulation is the norm.

Julio Guerrero, 33, was an impressionable boy when the quarterback Brett Favre came on the scene for the Green Bay Packers in 1992. As Favre gave new life to the Packers, Mr. Guerrero, who lives in Milwaukee and manages a call center, became devoted to the team and joined the Sunday ritual that defines football fandom.

“You don’t miss a game unless you have like a really special family function, like a wedding or a funeral,” he said. “That is part of your Sunday. It’s part of the culture. It’s what you do. You go to work five days a week and you make sure you watch the Packers.”

Mr. Guerrero embraced Favre’s style of play. Here was an unruly kid from Mississippi who won over Green Bay fans with his gunslinger style and led the team to a Super Bowl victory. It seemed as if the fun would go on forever.

But when Favre left the Packers in 2008, Mr. Guerrero sensed his devotion starting to wane. Somehow he couldn’t relate to Favre’s successor, Aaron Rodgers, and he realized his fandom had reached an end when he wasn’t thrilled by the Packers’ Super Bowl victory in 2011.

He no longer spends his Sundays in front of the TV. He has become the guy at work who can’t talk about the game on Monday morning. He has built a new life for himself that doesn’t include football.

“I think the new set of friends I have are more into music and movies and arts, which is more of what I am into these days,” Mr. Guerrero said. “I don’t really feel that connected anymore to people who go to the bar and watch the football game every Sunday.”

Even before he attended the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Robert McNees lived for its basketball team, the Tar Heels. Now an associate professor of physics at Loyola University Chicago, he can still see a freshman named Michael Jordan hitting the game winner against Georgetown in the 1982 N.C.A.A. tournament championship game.

Dr. McNees’s affection for the team lasted well after he graduated. But as he grew older, he began to realize that much of his emotional attachment was bound to his fond memories of his college days.

His moment of reckoning came in 2012. After holding a double-digit lead with two and a half minutes to go against Duke, North Carolina ended up losing at the buzzer. Dr. McNees was inconsolable. Then he started to question himself.

“I was bummed out after that,” he said. “Then I was bummed out about the fact that I was so bummed out about it. Why? These are two groups of 19- to 22-year-olds playing a game. It should not have that much of an impact on a grown man.”

Dr. McNees, 43, decided to take a step back. He has not sworn off the Tar Heels altogether, but he no longer watches every game. And when he does, he is careful not to allow the outcome to ruin his day.

Finding that kind of middle ground is not an option for most fans, including Rob Jordan, a 39-year-old lawyer in Manhattan. As a child, he had posters of the baseball stars Ken Griffey Jr. and Mike Piazza on the walls of his bedroom. As Mike Schmidt cried while announcing his retirement at a 1989 news conference, Mr. Jordan wept right along with him.

His fandom deepened with the rise of fantasy sports. He became well versed in even the most obscure baseball, basketball and football players, and he said he won thousands of dollars as a result of his expertise.

About the time he turned 30, he decided that fantasy sports was no longer the best use of his time. And it wasn’t a big step from cutting out fantasy to leaving behind sports fandom altogether.

Recently, Mr. Jordan gave up cable TV, meaning he no longer has access to ESPN. He didn’t bother to watch an inning of the 2016 World Series — not even Game 7, which was viewed by 40 million — although it was broadcast on network television.

“I think there was a point where I consciously looked around and said, ‘Hey, I can keep admiring and celebrating the accomplishments of somebody else for a minimal amount of happiness-inducing entertainment value, or I can better allocate that time toward my own dreams and projects,’” Mr. Jordan said. “Clearly, I came out on the side of the latter.”

“It got to a point where even seeing a grown man in his mid-30s wearing a jersey with some other name on the back struck me as immature and odd,” he added. “You say, ‘Come on man, grow up.’”