The health of the former Yankees pitcher Mel Stottlemyre was said to be improving Sunday.

“Please know that the greatest warrior I have ever known is doing a lot better,” Stottlemyre’s son Todd wrote on his Facebook page. Stottlemyre, 75, was found to have multiple myeloma, a bone marrow cancer, in 2000.

The younger Stottlemyre had said Friday that his father was fighting for his life in a hospital.

“He is recovering at God speed and he is looking forward to getting out of the hospital,” Todd Stottlemyre wrote.

Stottlemyre pitched for the Yankees from 1964 to 1974, winning 20 or more games in 1965, 1968 and 1969. He was a five-time All-Star and had a career record of 164-139 with a 2.97 E.R.A. in 360 games.

After he retired, Stottlemyre served as a pitching coach for the Mets and the Yankees.

CUBS’ SERIES WIN VOTED TOP STORY The Cubs’ first World Series title since 1908 was the runaway winner for The Associated Press’s top sports story of 2016, collecting 48 of 59 first-place votes and 549 points in balloting by A.P. members and editors. The death of Muhammad Ali after a long battle with Parkinson’s disease was second with 427 points, and LeBron James leading the Cleveland Cavaliers to the franchise’s first N.B.A. title took third with 425 points.

LaMarcus Aldridge had a season-high 33 points and the host San Antonio Spurs held on to beat the Chicago Bulls, 119-100, on Sunday after nearly blowing a hot start.

Kawhi Leonard added 25 points, 10 rebounds and 4 assists. Tony Parker had 13 points and 8 assists.

Chicago rallied from a 20-point deficit to lead by 3 points midway through the third quarter but could not sustain the push, taking its third straight loss.

Dwyane Wade led the Bulls with 24 points, including 10 in the final quarter.

WESTBROOK LEADS THUNDER OVER TIMBERWOLVES Russell Westbrook had 31 points and 15 assists as the Oklahoma City Thunder defeated the visiting Minnesota Timberwolves, 112-100.

Westbrook had 10 assists in the second half, but fell short of becoming the first Thunder player to score at least 40 points in four straight games.

Karl-Anthony Towns led Minnesota with 26 points.

Houston quarterback Tom Savage was not great in his first career start in place of Brock Osweiler.

But Savage did not make any major mistakes during the Texans’ 12-10 win over the Cincinnati Bengals on Saturday night, allowing Houston to clinch a second straight A.F.C. South title.

Savage and the Texans know he will need to improve in the postseason.

“I think we can build, and obviously I think it’s a good thing that we protected the ball — not put the defense in a tough situation,” Savage said.

Savage threw for 260 yards last week to help Houston rally for a 21-20 win over the Jacksonville Jaguars in his first regular-season action since 2014. Osweiler was benched that game after throwing interceptions on consecutive possessions in the second quarter. Coach Bill O’Brien left Osweiler on the bench and stuck with Savage, and early on against the Bengals it looked like a mistake.

Savage, in his third season, completed two passes for 13 yards in the first half, and the Texans trailed by 3-0 at halftime. He was much better in the second half, and he finished with 176 passing yards to help Houston win. He completed 18 of 29 passes and has not turned over the ball. Osweiler threw more interceptions (16) than touchdown passes (14) in his 14 starts.

“We went to no-huddle, and he was able to get rid of the ball a little bit quicker,” O’Brien said. “The no-huddle helped our pace, our rhythm, and it was just a good job by the offensive staff of getting him into a rhythm.”

Though the Texans have already secured the division title, next week at Tennessee will be important for Savage to get more experience before the playoffs begin. They are looking for more this year after an embarrassing 30-0 home loss to the Kansas City Chiefs in the first round last January.

“The goal is to win it all, but this is the first step,” the owner, Bob McNair, said.

The Texans are looking to pick up that elusive 10th win after going 9-7 in each of O’Brien’s first two seasons. The Titans will be without quarterback Marcus Mariota after he broke his leg in a loss to the Jaguars on Saturday that helped Houston secure its playoff berth.

BEARS ARE WOEFUL The Bears’ 41-21 loss to Washington on Saturday was as ugly as any this season, and it guaranteed the Bears (3-12) will at best match their worst record in 14 years. The loss also left open the possibility that Chicago will equal its lowest win total in a nonstrike year in more than four decades.

In one sense, normalcy has returned to the Premier League after the craziness of Leicester’s improbable surge to the title last season.

The top six on Christmas Day were the teams that many predicted would challenge for the title: Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester City, Arsenal, Tottenham and Manchester United.

There is nothing normal about Chelsea’s current form, however.

After 11 straight wins, Chelsea leads the league by 6 points over Liverpool. Only once — Arsenal in 2001, with 13 straight wins — has a top-tier club had a longer winning streak in one season since World War II.

With a stingy defense (two goals conceded in the last 11 games), a dynamic midfield marshaled by N’Golo Kante and a forward line led by the league’s top scorer, Diego Costa, there are no apparent weaknesses in Chelsea’s lineup. It is hard to see how Chelsea can be stopped. Costa, who last season appeared more interested in picking fights than scoring goals, has been consistent this season, with 13 goals and 5 assists.

Chelsea has three tough away games left — at Spurs, Liverpool and United — and is proving adept at eking out 1-0 wins. Four of its last six games have finished with that score line, including the last three.

One thing seems certain: There will be no miracle sequel for Leicester, which is languishing in 15th place.

OAKLAND, Calif. — The night before the Thunder tried for the first time to eradicate the Golden State Warriors from the postseason, the Oklahoma City players attended the film “X-Men: Apocalypse.” The group included the 7-footer Steven Adams, who is from New Zealand but looks as if he could have emerged from the pages of a comic book.

As the players strode through the lobby toward the theater reserved for them, Adams attracted attention from other moviegoers at the multiplex, and not just because of his Samson locks, handlebar mustache and tattoo ink running down his right arm.

Adams, 22, has been a paladin in the paint for the Thunder in these playoffs, but the nobility of making and rejecting shots and pulling down rebounds is possibly the only thing to have escaped his grasp. Adams’s teammate, forward Nick Collison, said that as they walked through the lobby, Adams turned to him and said: “This is weird. Everyone is watching us.”

Collison added, “He’s handling it well, but I think he just doesn’t understand the whole star culture we have over here.”

With six double-doubles in the playoffs, matching his regular-season total, Adams, a third-year center, has been the breakout performer of the postseason. The isosceles triangle he has formed with established stars Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook confounded the San Antonio Spurs in the second round and has confused the Warriors, who trail, 3-2, in the best-of-seven series after staving off elimination Thursday with a 120-111 victory at home. Game 6 is Saturday in Oklahoma City.

Despite picking up two fouls in the opening three minutes, Adams had 10 rebounds in the game and finished one field goal from his seventh double-double. The Antipodes player who took center stage on this night was the Warriors’ Australia-born Andrew Bogut, who collected 15 points and 14 rebounds. After the game, Adams sounded as if he took the box score and balled it up and deposited it in the trash bin along with the athletic tape holding his bruised and battered body together.

Adams spent nearly 30 minutes in the training room before emerging briefly to talk to reporters. “We just have to make another adjustment, man,” he said. “That’s what series are about.”

After he was done fielding questions, Adams returned to the training room for roughly another half-hour of treatment. While he was having his body worked on, the retired center Dikembe Mutombo, a native of the Democratic Republic of Congo, stopped by the locker room to visit with a fellow Congolese, the forward Serge Ibaka. Mutombo stayed to talk about Adams, spreading praise like salve.

“I’m so proud of him,” Mutombo said. “I’m so proud of his effort. He’s unbelievable.”

Mutombo shook his head in wonderment as he recalled one of Adams’s second-quarter baskets, a dunk off a rebound of a missed 12-footer by Westbrook. “I was like ‘Whoa!’” Mutombo said, adding, “He’s one of the most surprising big men today.”

Adams perked up when Mutombo’s words were relayed to him. Alluding to Mutombo’s deep, soothing voice, which calls to mind Barry White on stilts, Adams said, “He can read me a story and I’ll go straight to sleep.”

For Adams, and his teammates, there is no resting. After coasting to 55 victories in the regular season to trail the Warriors (73) and the Spurs (67) in the West, the Thunder have circled their playoff prey with a hunger that is almost primal. Adams epitomizes the team’s commitment to getting better and to playing with and for one another.

“He’s really, really focused and concentrated on trying to do the job to the best of his ability,” said the Thunder’s first-year coach, Billy Donovan, “and I think he does the job out of great care for the guys in the locker room.”

From their center, the Thunder’s cohesiveness spreads outward. Its ripple effects were seen late in Thursday’s game when Durant, between whistles, hurried over to the bench and patted the players as if they were pillows in need of plumping. Which in a manner of speaking, they were: The Warriors’ reserves outscored their Oklahoma City counterparts by 30 to 13.

But before his teammates can feed off Adams’s energy, he has to accommodate his voracious appetite. “His metabolism is crazy,” said Collison, who has watched Adams attack two or three entrees at one sitting with the same zeal he does loose rebounds.

“I think one of the best things about playing in the N.B.A. for him is he’s able to afford really good food,” Collison said.

Any meal that does not have to be divided among siblings qualifies as a feast for Adams. His father, Sid, an Englishman who settled in New Zealand after serving in the navy, had 18 children with five women. Adams is the youngest. He said mealtimes growing up were as competitive as any sport. “You kind of did fight for food so I filled up my plate,” he said. “My dad would make us finish it and I’d sit there crying because I’d have to finish all that food.” He laughed. “I think that forced my stomach to stretch,” Adams said.

Adams’s father seeded a redwood forest. His brothers average 6 feet 9 inches, and two, Warren and Ralph, played professional basketball in New Zealand in the 1980s. His sisters average 6 feet and include 31-year-old Valerie, a two-time Olympic champion in the shot-put who stands a shade under 6 feet 4. Their family resemblance is obvious; Adams has the same nimbleness around the basket that Valerie does in the shot-put circle.

As a child, Adams lived with his father and three siblings in Rotorua, a rural town on New Zealand’s North Island known for its geysers and thermal pools. In 2006, when Adams was 13, his father died of cancer, and Adams’s life unraveled. He started ditching school and fell in with a bad crowd. He was not close to his mother, so his brother Warren intervened, collecting Adams and bringing him to Wellington, where he lived.

Through his brother, Adams met two people who would form the core of the second family he has created. Kenny McFadden, a former Washington State standout who played professionally in New Zealand, oversaw his basketball development, and the strength trainer Blossom Cameron directed Adams’s education and became his legal guardian.

Through his brother and McFadden, a teenage Adams popped onto the radar of Jamie Dixon, then coaching at Pittsburgh, who had befriended both men while playing in the New Zealand professional league. Dixon recruited Adams to Pittsburgh, where he played one season, 2012-13, before turning to the pros.

The player drafted 12th over all by the Thunder in 2013 bears little resemblance to the one who was kryptonite to the Spurs’ Tim Duncan and has driven the Warriors’ Draymond Green to distraction in the Western Conference finals. His game, now more streamlined and efficient, has evolved. The same cannot be said of his hair. As a rookie, he was cleanshaven and had a modified crew cut. At some point, he and his teammate Enes Kanter, a 6-foot-11 forward, decided to grow mustaches.

That was the start. Early on, someone told Adams that he looked like Tom Selleck, recently named 2016’s Sexiest Actor Alive by Glamour magazine. Adams needed no further encouragement to continue on his hirsute path, which raises the question: How would he have reacted if someone had said he resembled the actor and comedian Russell Brand?

In lock step with his mustache, Adams started growing out his hair, which he collects in a ponytail during games. He recently began pitching his own signature mustache-styling wax, made by Handmade La Conner, with a scent of oakmoss and whiskey with a hint of roseweed essential oil.

Thunder fans, both young and old, have begun showing up at home games with handlebar mustaches and fake tattoos down their right arms. But the real tribute to Adams can be seen in his homeland. The N.B.A. playoffs, because of his role, are competing with cricket and rugby for top billing in the evening sports news, which is a first.

“I hope that basketball gains momentum and kids understand that you can actually make a living from it,” Adams said. “Not just the N.B.A. You can get a scholarship, a free degree, like no student loan you have to pay off. That’s huge in life. Once they realize that in New Zealand, I hope they get inspired.”

The N.F.L. disciplined the Giants and Coach Ben McAdoo on Tuesday because McAdoo used a walkie-talkie for about five plays during a 10-7 win over the Dallas Cowboys on Dec. 11.

The league fined the Giants $150,000, fined McAdoo $50,000 and moved the team’s fourth-round pick in next year’s draft to the end of the round.

“It was a clear violation of the rules, and we accept full responsibility and the penalty,” the Giants said in a statement.

McAdoo, a rookie coach, used the walkie-talkie early in the fourth quarter after his communications system malfunctioned.

The league prohibits the use of two-way radios by coaches to communicate plays during a game. The drive on which McAdoo used the walkie-talkie ended in a Dallas interception.

RAIDERS LEAD PRO BOWL SELECTIONS The Oakland Raiders, who lead the A.F.C. West, had seven players selected for the Pro Bowl, the most of any team. Six members of the Atlanta Falcons were selected, most among N.F.C. teams. The Falcons lead the N.F.C. South.

New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was picked for the 12th time, despite having missed the first four games of the season. Cleveland Browns offensive tackle Joe Thomas and Arizona Cardinals wide receiver Larry Fitzgerald were selected for the 10th time.

Four Giants players were selected, including wide receiver Odell Beckham Jr. The Jets had none.

HEARING FOR HERNANDEZ The lone survivor of a 2012 double homicide in Boston identified the former New England Patriots tight end Aaron Hernandez as the triggerman during a pretrial hearing.

BLUE JACKETS WIN 10TH IN A ROW Cam Atkinson had two goals and scored in a shootout, helping the host Columbus Blue Jackets beat the Los Angeles Kings, 3-2, for their 10th straight victory, setting a team record.

Curtis McElhinney made 44 saves, and Sam Gagne scored the decider in the shootout, keeping Columbus unbeaten since Nov. 26.

The Jackets, who have points in 12 straight games, improved to 21-5-4 and will host the Stanley Cup champion Pittsburgh Penguins on Thursday night with a chance to jump into first place in the brutally competitive Metropolitan Division.

AROUND THE N.H.L. Devan Dubnyk made 18 saves for his N.H.L.-leading fifth shutout this season, and the host Minnesota Wild beat the Colorado Avalanche, 2-0, for their eighth straight victory.  The Florida Panthers beat the visiting Buffalo Sabres, 4-3, and Jaromir Jagr had three assists to pull into a tie for second place on the N.H.L.’s career points list.  James Neal scored twice in the first period, Juuse Saros stopped 27 shots and the Nashville Predators beat the host Devils, 5-1.  Thomas Greiss stopped 48 shots, Anders Lee scored twice and had an assist, and the Islanders beat the host Boston Bruins, 4-2, to end a five-game losing streak.

YANKEES TRADE A PITCHER The Yankees traded pitcher Nick Goody to the Cleveland Indians for a player to be named or $50,000.

The teams said the swap must be completed by May 5.

Goody, a 25-year-old right-hander, had a 4.66 E.R.A. in 27 relief appearances for the Yankees last season, striking out 34 in 29 innings.

The longtime TNT broadcaster Craig Sager was remembered for his love of family, sports and colorful attire at a memorial service in Atlanta that produced laughs and tears.

Among those attending the service were San Antonio Spurs Coach Gregg Popovich, and Ernie Johnson and Reggie Miller, who worked with Sager at TNT.

The Rev. Randy Mickler led the service. Mickler noted he decided against wearing his black robe and instead wore a purple shirt and colorful jacket he said would have made Sager “extremely proud and pleased,” referring to Sager’s flair with his wardrobe.

Sager, 65, died Thursday following a two-year fight with acute myeloid leukemia.

SPURS END ROCKETS’ STREAK Patty Mills hit a 3-pointer with 12.9 seconds left to lift the San Antonio Spurs over the visiting Houston Rockets, 102-100. The loss ended Houston’s 10-game winning streak.

A 3-point attempt by the Rockets’ James Harden bounced off the rim at the buzzer. Harden finished with 31 points, 10 rebounds and 7 assists.

The victory was San Antonio’s fifth straight. Kawhi Leonard led the Spurs with 21 points.

Any recap of a year in sports demands a great lede, like: “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.”

But no. We’re talking Cleveland sports.

And this year the sun shined almost all the time. The basketball team was tough, the baseball team was smart, and the football team was … the Browns.

You may have heard that the Cavaliers beat Golden State in the N.B.A. finals to give Cleveland its first major sports championship since 1964. (If not, let me ask: How was Pluto?) It was sweet to watch a team that had dismissed its coach at midseason and been left for dead in the finals overpower Wardell Stephen Curry II and the All-Galaxy Warriors. (No need to mention that Cleveland has treated the Californians as ginger-haired members of the blended family ever since.)

Sweeter still was hearing chants of “Real M.V.P.!” rain down in Quicken Loans Arena every time LeBron James touched the basketball. And that was just June.

As a second course, the Indians’ run to the World Series wasn’t ramen noodles. The Depleted Indians’ season — beset by key injuries and held together with baling wire, spearmint gum and Manager Terry Francona’s guile — was carried by a bullpen deeper than the Mariana Trench. The Fall Classic versus the Chicago Cubs didn’t disappoint.

Forget that at times the Fox broadcasters sounded as if they were reading from Kyle Schwarber’s Tinder profile. Never mind that Cubs reliever Aroldis Chapman was sputtering in the late innings of Game 7 like the cyborg in “Terminator 3.” Forget even that it took divine intervention in the form of a 17-minute rain delay to keep Chicago from making America Goat Again. The Tribe fell short. And in so doing prevented effigies of Manager Joe Maddon from being hoisted over Wrigley Field instead of a W flag. You’re welcome, Chicago.

Any recap of the Cleveland year in sports requires a nod to our largely professional football team. Suffice to say that the Cleveland Browns are the only N.F.L. franchise rumored to offer grocery bags with eye holes as official-team-shop headgear. There is, we are told, a method to the on-field madness, the pot of gold at the end of this awful rainbow being a Santa’s sack of high draft picks. But watching the Browns’ front office evaluate talent is not unlike watching your drunken uncle fire up his Christmas-gift chain saw. Unease is definitely warranted. Remember, this is a team that has been rebuilding since the Visigoths took Rome and the points.

Civic types in Cleveland have been floating the notion that our sports success means that, after years of decline, we have finally arrived — championship rings the size of soup tureens being the visible proof of our new place in the leisure-industrial complex. Nonsense. For one thing, it was possible to study a Picasso and spy an Iron Chef in the same evening here long before J. R. Smith ever rode a parade float. And for another, Cleveland — despite efforts to sell bobbleheads and woo conventioneers — remains a city with a chip on its shoulder.

We are still a place where old men gather under the onion domes of the Russian Orthodox churches in the Tremont neighborhood and shake fists at the holes in the sky where their steel mills used to be, while swells in martini bars toast the death of smokestack industry.

We are still a city where you can spend the house note on dinner at Red the Steakhouse, and where working folks line up before dawn at Slyman’s restaurant for the corned beef they must serve the righteous in the Great Hereafter. Wee morning-drive radio personages mine the city’s history of garish sports gaffes (Hue Jackson’s clock management!), but no one really expects anything worth remembering from Steve-on-a-car-phone.

And Cleveland fans still ease their suffering with jokes. (How does a Browns fan count to 10? 0-1, 0-2, 0-3. …)

But there is a new buoyancy about town. It is a buoyancy that started between the lines in the ballpark and the basketball arena and has spilled out, largely undiminished, into some of the less scenic corners of the city. You can’t stop hope here. You can’t even contain it.

A new year is here, and in town squares everywhere the hardy braved the cold to ring it in. There’s a burg along the Lake Erie shore about an hour from Cleveland where they forgo a ball drop and lower a 600-pound fiberglass walleye instead. Watching a game fish descend out of the dark might not be for everyone, but its unhurried progress allows time to reflect on the past, and the year ahead — like what Edwin Encarnacion’s 40 dingers will mean in the middle of the Indians’ batting order. The wind off the lake will seem gentle. And in 2017 the sun will shine all the time.