Throughout the recent period of N.B.A. free agency, with owners making it rain like crazy, I kept thinking of Oscar Robertson.

He was one of the most complete, fundamentally sound players in history. Yet Robertson’s greatest triumph came 40 years ago when, as president of the National Basketball Players Association, a lawsuit he filed brought free agency to the league.

Filed in 1970, Robertson v. the National Basketball Association sought to end the “option clause,” which bound a player to a single team in perpetuity.

Six years later, the settlement, a major provision of which is known as the Oscar Robertson Rule, led to freedom of movement and lavish salaries as franchises battled one another for the industry’s most precious commodity: players.

“I don’t think anyone could imagine what’s going on right now,” Robertson said last week. “We were just trying to get better playing conditions. We wanted to make sure that when you signed a contract with a basketball team and didn’t want to play for them, they couldn’t keep you from playing for any other team in the league. I thought that was terribly wrong.”

When he filed the suit, owners denounced him, and some players initially resisted out of fear that free agency would kill the N.B.A.

“It was a tough sell,” Robertson said. “A lot of the guys felt that our stance was really going to hurt basketball. It was going to put a lot of teams out of business. But it did not. It went the other way.”

The game has never been more popular than it is today, thanks to the unimpeded flow of players entering the N.B.A. from around the world and star players selling their services every few years.

“It was amazing how so many owners didn’t really understand it; they thought free agency was going to kill basketball and basketball would never be the same,” Robertson said. “And it’s true. Basketball has never been the same since then.”

When Robertson entered the league in 1960, there were eight teams in two divisions.

Now there are 30 teams in six divisions, and according to Forbes, the average value of an N.B.A. franchise is $1.25 billion.

When Robertson filed the suit, powerhouse teams were put together by owners on owners’ terms. As in other sports, players played where they were told to play.

Take Bill Russell. Before the 1956-57 season, the Boston Celtics traded Ed Macauley and Cliff Hagan to St. Louis for the draft rights to Russell. The Celtics won the N.B.A. title that season, signifying the beginning of the Celtic dynasty.

Philadelphia traded Wilt Chamberlain to the Los Angeles Lakers before the 1968-69 season.

When Robertson was traded to Milwaukee from Cincinnati before the 1970-71 season, the Bucks’ front office also wanted to trade away some starters on a team that had just reached the Eastern Division finals.

“I told them that if they traded any of the starters, I would refuse to play for them,” Robertson said. “If you kill the team, there was no need for me to be there.”

Robertson had a no-trade clause in his contract and another clause that gave him the right to pick the team he wanted to play for.

Heeding Robertson’s threat, the Bucks kept all the starting players.

Today, most star players have no-trade clauses, and free agents can determine where they will play and with whom. Old-school players insist they wouldn’t want to play with a stacked deck filled with rivals.

“What’s wrong with a stacked deck?” Robertson said. “I don’t think in this day and age, one superstar is going to win.”

The free-agent circus is good for the business of basketball, which is also show business.

Referring to Kevin Durant’s going to Golden State, Robertson said: “Look at what this is going to do for the N.B.A. Everywhere the Warriors go, they will sell out. You’ll want to see Cleveland on TV. You want to see exciting teams on television.

“When the player gets to the point where you can command not only the money but command the right to say, ‘Hey, I don’t want this, I don’t want that,’ when you get to the point where the owners who are millionaires and billionaires don’t have the final say, that’s the key to it.”

This year, Mike Conley agreed to a five-year, $153 million contract with the Memphis Grizzlies. Matthew Dellavedova signed a four-year deal worth $38 million with the Bucks, and the Lakers signed Timofey Mozgov to a four-year contract worth $64 million.

“I applaud the players who can make $30, $40 million and play basketball,” Robertson said. “I know people are going to say, ‘These greedy basketball players, making millions and millions of dollars.’ But the owners have the money there, and they say, 'Young man, if you come and play with me, we’ll give you $30 million.’ You got to take it.”

The long- and short-term problem will come when players fail to live up to public expectations. If Golden State does not win a title, if Conley, Dellavedova and Mozgov cannot deliver playoff-caliber performances, what then?

“People want their stars to be heroes; they want to put them on pedestals,” Robertson said. “They also want the stars to perform. If they see you get $30-to-$40 million to play basketball, they expect you to play like a $30-to-$40-million player.”

The Robertson Rule was a solution to a specific problem, namely that owners had players in a headlock. And though the players have since escaped, the battle over control, player movement and a fair share of revenue continues.

“When you Look at the Oscar Robertson Rule, it was like throwing a raft into the water for the guys whose boat was sinking,” Robertson said.

No matter how rosy things seem now, the N.B.A. and the union inevitably will face continued confrontation over basketball-related income. Current N.B.A. players, if they want leverage, should study Robertson’s 40-year-old playbook.

He took on the N.B.A. and won.

Oshae Brissett, a highly regarded prospect from Mississauga, Ontario, enjoyed a brush with Carmelo Anthony that could be seen as the passing of the torch from one of Coach Jim Boeheim’s brightest stars at Syracuse to a promising young player headed there next season.

Brissett, a lithe 6-foot-9, 200-pound forward, committed to the Orange during halftime of the Nov. 12 Raptors-Knicks broadcast on TSN, the Canadian sports channel. He then met briefly with Anthony after the game, and they posed for a picture — with Brissett wearing an orange Syracuse baseball cap — that he posted on social media.

“He just said congrats and welcome to the family,” Brissett said of the brief interaction.

In addition to choosing Syracuse, Brissett and Anthony soon will share another common experience: Both will have played for Boeheim for only one season. Anthony, of course, left for the N.B.A. after leading the Orange to Boeheim’s only N.C.A.A. championship, as a freshman in 2003.

Brissett’s circumstances are different. While he may stay for more than one season, Boeheim will not. After an N.C.A.A. investigation, Boeheim announced in March 2015 that he planned to retire after the 2017-18 season. At that point, his longtime assistant Mike Hopkins, who is listed on the Syracuse website as “head coach-designate,” is scheduled to slide into the head coach’s seat.

The signing of Brissett and the pursuit of other top prospects illustrate the tricky path Syracuse is navigating during its transfer of power. It is a delicate dance: Syracuse is trying to persuade the kind of blue-chip prospects that Syracuse demands to entrust their futures to both Boeheim, a 72-year-old in his 41st season as coach, and to Hopkins, a career assistant who has never led a top program.

“Yeah, I knew all that going in,” Brissett said of Boeheim’s looming departure. “That is not a problem with me. Getting one year with a Hall of Fame coach like Coach Boeheim, it will help me in the long run.”

Still, that does not mean the Boeheim-Hopkins transition has not faced challenges. Several college and high school coaches, including Brissett’s, said they had not seen rival recruiters use Boeheim’s departure to make the case against Syracuse, perhaps because of the respect they hold for Boeheim, a Hall of Famer. But while Brissett eagerly signed on, Syracuse recently lost out on Quade Green, a coveted guard from Philadelphia who will attend Kentucky. His decision, after two years of recruiting pitches, left Syracuse scrambling for a point guard of the future.

Green’s coach, Carl Arrigale, said he doubted Boeheim’s impending retirement had much to do with the decision, and Boeheim — a veteran of many such losses on the recruiting trail — brushed it off. Before the 1995-96 season, Boeheim noted, Syracuse lost out on the best guard in the country, Stephon Marbury, “and we went to the Final Four that year.”

“Let’s not get too upset about a recruit or two,” he said.

Recruits, too, seem to be playing down the intrigue. Hamidou Diallo, a shooting guard with N.B.A. potential, is considering Syracuse along with Kentucky, Connecticut and several other top programs. Boeheim went to watch him play at a showcase in November in New Haven, Conn., his mere presence indicating that Diallo is a priority for the Orange.

Asked recently if Boeheim’s impending retirement would affect his decision, Diallo said: “Not necessarily. It’s just something to look into and pick the pros and cons of every school. Every school has a pro and a con.”

Tyus Battle, a 6-6 freshman forward from Edison, N.J., said he committed to Syracuse in part because he wanted to play for Boeheim’s final teams and help him chase another national championship. But Battle’s father, Gary, said the current team had much bigger things to worry about than thinking that far ahead.

“We got two years — it’s a long time,” he said with a laugh before the Orange’s loss to UConn at Madison Square Garden on Dec. 5. “We got a lot to worry about tonight and the rest of the season, so nobody’s worried about that.”

Hopkins, however, does not have that luxury. While Boeheim served a suspension last season that arose from of the N.C.A.A. violations case, Hopkins went 4-5 in his first weeks in charge of the program. That imperfect fill-in appearance, and other questions about the transition, have forced Hopkins and assistants like Gerry McNamara and Adrian Autry to be more aggressive in assuaging the concerns of recruits, their parents and their coaches.

In addition to keeping in contact with Brissett, Hopkins recently traveled to New Jersey to meet with Bourama Sidibe, a 6-10 native of Mali who also will enroll at Syracuse next season.

“We had conversations with Gerry Mac, the assistant coach, about it,” said Mark Taylor, Sidibe’s coach at St. Benedict’s Prep in Newark. “And then Mike Hopkins actually came down and visited with Bourama and spent the time with him and had good conversations, so I think that was important.”

When it comes to younger recruits, Hopkins often takes the lead now, getting out in front and explaining the transition, fully aware that it is in his interest to take over with a cupboard stocked with blue-chip recruits. Dave Boff, the coach at Roselle Catholic in Roselle, N.J., who has dealt with Hopkins and Boeheim for decades, has noticed a subtle shift.

“I guess the difference is that Mike’s now the lead and also on some level the closer,” he said, “where it used to be Coach Boeheim would come in towards the end and try to kind of finish the deal off.”

He added: “I think without question the fact that they’ve been open about the transition plan and everybody knows what’s going on makes it much easier for Mike. And the fact that he’s been the lead recruiter for a long period of time anyway, I don’t really think that it has to change all that much.”

It should have been a breakthrough moment: Swin Cash, a former forward for the New York Liberty of the W.N.B.A., was on the cover of Sports Illustrated last spring, wearing not a uniform, but a red silk chiffon Michael Kors dress and a Hollywood smile for its 2016 “Fashionable 50” roundup.

Sure, it was fashion, not basketball, being celebrated. But fashion is big business in the hoops world these days. Male stars like LeBron James, Carmelo Anthony and Russell Westbrook have cemented their status as mainstream celebrities by starting clothing labels, appearing in glossy fashion spreads and mingling with Anna Wintour on the front row.

The emergence of a female LeBron — a star of fashion tents and the hardwood — may show that the league had, culturally, arrived after 20 years of wavering fan support and sporadic news-media exposure.

If only.

“You would think from a W.N.B.A. standpoint, just the body shape and frame, these tall and gorgeous women reflect a lot on what designers like on the runway,” said Ms. Cash, 37, who walked the runways at fashion shows in New York as a teenager. Too many times, however, it has been “like pulling teeth” to get the fashion world to take notice, she added. “I played in New York,” she said. “I’m going out on red carpets. But if I wasn’t paying a stylist, they wouldn’t be looking to do anything with me.”

If you are six feet-plus with a killer crossover, you are seemingly even more likely to bump your head on the glass ceiling.

As the W.N.B.A. finals between the Los Angeles Sparks and the Minnesota Lynx begin Sunday (3 p.m. Eastern on ABC), the league’s stars still face a yawning gap in income, exposure and endorsement opportunities compared with their male counterparts. Nowhere is that more apparent than the style world, where N.B.A. players seem to carry as much clout as movie stars, but many of the W.N.B.A.’s athletes remain as invisible as key grips.

But that may be starting to change, as players like Brittney Griner and Skylar Diggins have emerged as style influencers, and the fashion world slowly embraces a new inclusiveness that defines beauty beyond size 2 waifs from Ukraine.

Without question, however, there’s a lot of ground to cover if the fashion-forward female players hope to catch up to the men.

Mr. Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder is just one of many N.B.A. stars who have become front-row fixtures during fashion week; he has also augmented his eight-figure salary as a creative director for True Religion, the clothing brand, and by designing his own clothing line in partnership with Barneys New York.

Mr. James, who would hardly seem to need more exposure, or income, collaborates with Nike on designs bearing his name. In 2015, he executive-produced the splashy N.B.A. All-Star All-Style fashion show during All-Star weekend that featured six-foot-something fashion plates like DeMarcus Cousins, Klay Thompson and James Harden treading the runway in designer duds for a TNT television audience. Female players, by contrast, are lucky enough to see their games televised, let alone their fashion exploits.

“There are so many cool people in the women’s league that have a good sense of style,” said Cappie Pondexter, a guard for the Chicago Sky. “We talk about it every week — it’s visibility. We don’t have that exposure.”

Undeterred, Ms. Pondexter has made a splash with her fashion company, 4Season Style Management, which provides wardrobe styling, personal shopping, and other services for celebrity clients like the model Jessica White and the singer and actress Teyana Taylor, and which styled the designer Laurel DeWitt’s runway show at the recent New York Fashion Week.

She acknowledged, however, that female players have to work harder than male players to be recognized.

“A lot of those guys, they’re into fashion, but they pay people to go shopping for them,” Ms. Pondexter said. “I don’t have a stylist, I dress myself.”

They also have to deal with the economic reality that they make a fraction of what their male counterparts earn. To supplement salaries that range from about $40,000 to $112,000, female stars often sign with teams in Asia or Europe during the off-season, meaning they are not even in the country to attend fashion events, according to Ms. Diggins, a Dallas Wings guard. (Ms. Diggins, whom Vogue called “basketball’s best dressed woman,” is an exception to the rule, having modeled for Nike and walked the runway at an American Heart Association benefit show at New York Fashion Week last February and at a Michael Costello show two years ago.)

Players who miss out on fashion week miss out on a prime opportunity to promote their league, and their personal brand.

“You look at the N.B.A., it’s the mecca of pop culture,” Ms. Diggins said. “You don’t just talk about ball with those guys, you talk about everything that goes with it: fashion, music, technology. People want to know what the athletes are wearing, what designers they like.” Fashion, she added, “is an opportunity to be seen in a different light, not just in my jersey.”

The marketing potential of fashion is obvious to league executives.

“We are not in the basketball business, we are in the entertainment business,” said Lisa Borders, the W.N.B.A. president. “People don’t follow leagues. They sometimes follow teams. But what they really follow is people. If one of our players is a fashionista, and you are a fashionista, you might follow that individual player because she has the same interest that you do.”

And W.N.B.A. athletes do understand the power of clothes to make a statement: Last July, players from the Liberty, Indiana Fever, and Phoenix Mercury drew league fines when they donned plain black warm-up shirts in support of the Black Lives Matter protests (the league rescinded the fines after widespread uproar).

One impediment to visibility in style circles, players said, was the perception that basketball is a game of sharp elbows and sweat, unlike the more genteel women’s tennis, which has proved to be more fashion friendly. Serena Williams, for example, graced the cover of Vogue in a Rag & Bone sheath dress last year. Caroline Wozniacki and Maria Sharapova strutted the red carpet in gowns along with the other celebrities at the Metropolitan Museum of Art’s Costume Institute gala this year. Eugenie Bouchard “took fashion week by storm,” in the words of ESPN W, a couple of years ago as she mingled with the fashion A-list at shows by Tory Burch and Jason Wu.

“I’d love to see women’s players get to the point where we’re sitting next to Anna Wintour at fashion shows,” said Tiffany Bias, a guard with the Dallas Wings. But there are snags. Among them, she added, “people have that perception: They hear ‘women’s basketball player,’ and think of a very masculine player.”

That basketball, at certain positions, tends to favor large, powerfully built women is also a challenge, one not faced by many male players, like Chris Bosh, another noted N.B.A. clotheshorse, whose willowy 6-foot-11 frame and broad shoulders make him look like a fashion sketch come to life.

As the fashion designer Rachel Antonoff put it: “The typical male athlete’s body is in line with the gender-normative body ideal we all see in movies and fashion. The female athlete’s isn’t. And what a shame. Their bodies are incredibly beautiful, like sculpted works of art.”

Other players cited race as a potential complicating factor. “You look at the W.N.B.A., and a high percentage of the league is African-American women,” Ms. Cash said. “We struggle with a lot, in jobs or in society in general.”

This explanation hit home with some designers, like Becca McCharen of Chromat. “There’s a history of racism in every industry,” she said, “and fashion is not exempt from that.”

Then again, the degree to which race complicates W.N.B.A. players’ attempts to market themselves is part of a “bigger conversation,” Ms. Cash said, particularly since almost all of the prominent N.B.A. fashionistas are also African-American.

What is clear is that the concept of “ideal” beauty in fashion is changing quickly as designers like Ms. Antonoff, Ms. McCharen and Tracy Reese, along with many others, make efforts to include a wide range of body types, ethnicities and gender identities in their shows and lookbooks.

“Individuality is being celebrated,” Ms. Reese said. “You don’t have to be cute and petite, you can be cute and tall, or cute and wide. You can be every color under the rainbow. Already, there are a lot of runway models who are 6-1, so in a lot of ways, the average W.N.B.A. player is a perfect runway girl.”

The recent elevation of Ms. Griner, a 6-foot-8 center for the Mercury, to style influencer may be a case in point.

Despite her androgynous style — or, most likely, because of it — Ms. Griner has attracted mainstream attention in the style media since she attended the 2013 draft, where she was selected first over all, in a white-on-white tuxedo.

During her rookie season, the laconic Houston native signed a deal to model men’s clothing for Nike (“They let me be me,” she said). Elle dissected her work with Ellen DeGeneres’s fashion adviser, Kellen Richards, as she considered a Saint Laurent sweatshirt top with cutoff sleeves for an appearance at the ESPY Awards.

In a 2014 Sports Illustrated interview in which she discussed being gay — a significant disclosure for a league with a loyal following among gay women — Ms. Griner wore a blue gingham shirt, an ivory bow tie and glasses that recalled the neo-Urkel look pushed by N.B.A. players like Kevin Durant and Mr. James, which inspired jokes about the “Nerd Basketball Association.”

While Ms. Griner’s gender-bending style may have confounded the conservative culture of professional sports in another era, today it has made her a candidate for that most elusive title: W.N.B.A. style icon.

The question is whether mere equality with male players is good enough. “When you look up and see what Russell Westbrook has on,” Ms. Griner said, “you say, ‘Let’s push the envelope, too.’”