After a six-day break for dunking over mascots and a 196-173 exhibition game, the N.B.A. season finally resumed on Thursday night. The symbolic halfway mark of the season is always an appropriate time to take stock. Preseason hopes have been dashed for some, while excitement is rising for others.

With the awareness that the second half of the season and the playoffs have the potential to upend things, here are some of the biggest surprises of the season so far.

Overachieving Teams

Before the season, the Golden State Warriors were, understandably, expected to be the top team. Their projected win total at sports books was around 60.

But the Warriors (48-4) are on their way to sailing far above this high bar and are threatening record heights. With a winning percentage of .923, they are on a pace to win 76 games; no team would exceed its expected win total by more. Golden State was expected to be the best team in basketball, yet it is also the biggest overachiever.

HONORABLE MENTION The Portland Trail Blazers. What? A team that won 51 games last season has slipped to .500. How can that be an overachievement? Well, expectations were extraordinarily low for the Blazers this season after they lost LaMarcus Aldridge and Wesley Matthews to free agency. Their over-under win total was only 26.

But behind Damian Lillard and a revelatory C. J. McCollum, who had three N.B.A. starts before the season and is now averaging 20.7 points a game, the Blazers have been respectable against the odds. A possible trip to the playoffs for a team that was supposed to collapse actually represents overachievement.

OTHER HONORABLE MENTIONS The San Antonio Spurs have been overlooked amid the excitement over the Warriors. The Spurs were projected to win 58 games by bookmakers, but at 45-8 entering Thursday, they could far surpass their franchise record of 63 wins. Also overachieving are the Toronto Raptors (in second place in the Eastern Conference and hoping for their first playoff series win since 2001) and the Charlotte Hornets (expected to be poor but in the playoff mix at 27-26).

Underachieving Teams

Behind Anthony Davis, a star of the present and a superstar of the future, the New Orleans Pelicans were expected to continue their improvement, with an over-under projection of 47 wins. But the Pelicans (20-33) are on a pace to win 31. Davis has slipped in most statistical categories, and with Omer Asik, Eric Gordon and Alonzo Gee playing key roles, the team has not matched up well with the elite. Intangibles? The N.B.A.’s website gives the Pelicans D grades for defense, bench and coaching.

DISHONORABLE MENTION The Phoenix Suns (expected to be mediocre, they have instead been horrible), the Houston Rockets (after a run to the conference finals, they have slumped to mediocrity) and the Los Angeles Lakers (the worst team in the league not playing in Philadelphia).

Newly Elite Player

Toronto’s Kyle Lowry has shown steady improvement over his 10 N.B.A. seasons. This season, he is averaging more than 20 points a game for the first time and, with his second straight All-Star selection, has joined the discussion of the league’s best. Of the newcomers to the top 20 in player efficiency rating this season, he has improved the most.

HONORABLE MENTION At 31, Paul Millsap of the Atlanta Hawks also seems to be on his way to a career year.

Breakthrough Rookie

Karl-Anthony Towns of the Minnesota Timberwolves is the only rookie in the top 20 in P.E.R. His team is woeful, but Towns’s 17.1 points and 10.1 rebounds a game have justified his No. 1 selection in the draft.

Stat of the Season

Stephen Curry has made 245 3-pointers this season. That is already seventh on the N.B.A.’s single-season list. The record of 286, which he set last season, is doomed; should he keep up his current pace, he will wind up with 386.

Curry is taking more 3s than ever, but he is shooting better from beyond the arc (.454) than in his last three seasons.

NASHVILLE — Fans attending Games 1 and 2 of the Stanley Cup finals in Pittsburgh received gold giveaway T-shirts. So did those attending Games 1 and 2 of the N.B.A. finals at the Golden State Warriors’ arena in Oakland, Calif. So did everyone who showed up in Nashville on Saturday for Game 3 of the N.H.L.’s title showdown.

“Optically, it’s intimidating,” said Chip Bowers, the Warriors’ chief marketing officer. “You look at 20,000 gold T-shirts in the crowd, you know you’re in an opposing venue.”

In other years, perhaps.

Gold may be a rare commodity, but these days, it is saturating the sports world. All four teams in the championship rounds of the N.B.A. and the N.H.L. feature the color, in one shade or another, on their uniforms and logos.

A monochromatic milieu of gold-clad fans waving rally towels of the same hue has rendered venues virtually indistinguishable. The color emblematic of home now represents the enemy, too.

Only one of the contenders has actively fought the conformity.

The Cleveland Cavaliers would rather watch a loop of Michael Jordan drilling The Shot over Craig Ehlo than distribute gold items with the Warriors in town for Game 3 on Wednesday.

“We believe in every sense of the word that we own that color,” said Tracy Marek, the chief marketing officer for the Cavaliers, who were known as the Wine and Gold even at the team’s inception in 1970. “But we’re not going to do anything that will make us look like we’re rooting for Golden State — let me make that very clear.”

Marek said she and her staff had been expecting Cleveland’s third consecutive N.B.A. finals matchup with the Warriors for months, and had planned accordingly.

Unlike the three other finalists, the Cavaliers are not committed to gold. They choose from several options for their giveaways, waiting from series to series to pick which color to accentuate, so they cannot be mistaken for their opponent.

On Wednesday, the giveaway T-shirts will probably be black. The rally towels will be white. They always are. Passing out gold ones in Cleveland, where Pittsburgh football fans routinely invade the Browns’ stadium and wave the Steelers’ famous canary Terrible Towels, might spark a mutiny.

“We don’t do gold towels in Cleveland,” Marek said. “We’re white towel people.”

Nevertheless, demand for the prevailing hue in sports has threatened to deplete the nation’s supply of blank gold T-shirts and rally towels. For the Warriors, the precision of Stephen Curry’s shooting has been matched only by the prescience of their marketing department. Bowers ordered 312,000 T-shirts in the team’s vibrant golden yellow — enough to outfit a capacity crowd at Oracle Arena for every potential playoff game — back in September.

“There’s not a huge number of those shirts produced,” he said, “but there are a number of teams that use them.”

In general, those shirts are harder to obtain than towels, said Kevin Nord, who deals in both items as the president of Pro Towels in Pittsburgh. His company stashes about 250,000 towels in gold, which, he said, is a relatively popular color — far more common than the Kelly green of the Boston Celtics or the gray of the San Antonio Spurs.

He notifies teams a round or two in advance if a supply is running lean, as he had to do with the Predators’ shirts for the Western Conference finals because he had already committed to the Penguins.

“And that’s the dicey part — everybody was using so much gold,” Nord said.

The sports merchandise agency BDA, which manages the purchasing process for several teams in the four major professional sports, averts a gold rush by starting to procure stock three to four months before a league’s playoffs begin.

Steve Avanessian, the agency’s vice president for client relations, said an internal matrix, updated daily, accounted for teams’ postseason probabilities and potential playoff opponents, allowing BDA to determine how many items of a particular color it needs to provide.

The abiding principle, Avanessian said, is assuming from the outset that every contending team — even Nashville, which was the lowest-seeded entry in the N.H.L. playoffs — has an equal chance to win a championship.

“If it was us and three other teams with different colors, the conversations would be much different,” said Danny Shaklan, the vice president for marketing and communications for the Predators, whose gold — more of an egg yolk, really — is the exact shade used by the Cavaliers. “They’d tell me how much is out there, call me when you want. But it’s pretty intense right now.”

The Penguins circumvent potential shortages of their gold T-shirts — daisy, officially — by keeping available a full house’s worth, about 19,000. They thought they had that many heading into Game 1, but a careful count revealed that they were short by 4,000.

Scrambling just before Memorial Day weekend, James Santilli, the team’s vice president for marketing, called a friend who works for FedEx. He helped arrange for a supply at a cotton company in Virginia to be sent to Pittsburgh for printing.

The Penguins have a sufficient quantity for the rest of the finals, Santilli said, though the Predators booked enough gold shirts for only Games 3 and 4. Shaklan said there could be a different giveaway if there is a Game 6 in Nashville — “Our fans wear gold to games anyways.” The Predators, trailing the best-of-seven series by two games to one, hope to see that.

But regardless of when the Stanley Cup finals end, or who wins, one team will provide the most incongruous sight of the series: hoisting a chalice of silver amid an ocean of gold.

WASHINGTON — The head of Turner Broadcasting on Wednesday pushed back against one of the central arguments of the government’s case to block the AT&T and Time Warner merger, saying that his company’s channels would not be used as a weapon against rivals if the deal went through.

The Justice Department has argued that Turner, which is owned by Time Warner, owns “must-have” channels like CNN and TNT that the merged company would use as leverage in negotiations with other cable and satellite TV operators. But John Martin, the chief executive of Turner, told a federal court that his channels were not absolutely vital for a cable or satellite business.

“I believe we have must-have, as do other programmers,” Mr. Martin said. “Must-have is another way of saying we have popular programming.”

Much of the Justice Department’s argument in the trial, which started last week, has centered on the importance of Turner’s exclusive sports rights, which include professional and college basketball games. Mr. Martin’s testimony had been one of the most anticipated moments of the trial.

The Justice Department called on Mr. Martin as an adversarial witness in large part to present emails and memos he wrote that revealed how important Turner content is to Time Warner’s business, and how critical Turner is for cable and satellite operators.

In one memo presented Wednesday, from 2016, Mr. Martin emphasized the importance of renewing rights to the N.C.A.A. college basketball championships, known as March Madness.

“March Madness plays a critical role” for Turner, Eric Welsh, a lawyer for the Justice Department, read from the email.

It’s “not just important but has a critical role,” he said to Mr. Martin.

Mr. Martin, who joined Time Warner in 1993, was one of the first witnesses called by the Justice Department. He has been vocal critic of the government’s lawsuit to block the merger, calling the Justice Department “clueless” last month.

Mr. Martin’s testimony revealed how the trial has placed company executives, who normally put a bold face on their businesses for investors, in a tricky position. AT&T and Time Warner played down their influence. Their rivals have described their weaknesses in full detail.

Mr. Martin tried to walk a thin line of presenting Turner’s sports and entertainment networks as important but not too important.

During cross-examination by AT&T, Mr. Martin disputed the government’s idea that the merger would give AT&T the incentive to use Turner Broadcasting as a negotiating weapon to extract higher fees from cable, satellite and online streaming providers.

Cable channels, he said, need to be distributed to make money — and can’t do that if rival cable operators decide that the price is too high to carry a channel.

“Distribution is the most important variable for success for any programmer,” Mr. Martin said. He said revenue for cable television networks come from two sources: subscription revenue and advertising. “Distribution affects both of those,” he said. “It’s simple math.”

The trial, which started last week, has attracted huge public interest, with the courtroom packed with company and government officials, investors, reporters and industry analysts. On Tuesday, executives from AT&T and Time Warner were in attendance. John Stankey, an AT&T executive poised to lead Time Warner if the merger is approved, has attended every day.

Judge Richard Leon of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia will decide the case. He has not indicated an inclination toward any arguments.

On Wednesday, in one of his few comments so far in the trial, he expressed astonishment at the $1 billion Turner pays each year for rights to broadcast National Basketball Association games.

“You said billion?” he said, eyebrows raised.

The Justice Department has called all the witnesses so far, and the early testimony by AT&T’s rivals has supported the Justice Department’s claim that the huge media merger would unfairly harm their businesses that depend on offering Turner’s channels. AT&T owns a nationwide satellite TV operator.

Warren Schlichting, the president of SlingTV, a streaming video service owned by Dish Network, another national satellite TV company, took the stand on Monday and Tuesday. He said Turner’s “hard-core” negotiating tactics in the past had led to blackouts of its channels and a loss of subscribers. Mr. Schlichting warned that things would get worse with a merger.

“With the merger, all the incentives change, and we have one of our most important licensers teaming up with our biggest adversary,” Mr. Schlichting said. “I just don’t know what incentive Time Warner would have to get a deal done.”

The government’s witnesses have faced tough questioning from Daniel Petrocelli, the lead litigator for AT&T and Time Warner. To show SlingTV’s history of contract disputes and willingness to lose customers, Mr. Petrocelli presented a long list of occasions when Dish allowed channels to go dark after contract negotiations failed. Mr. Petrocelli also pointed a several public statements by Dish’s chairman, Charlie Ergen, that appeared to diminish the importance of Turner channels to Dish.

The trial has moved slowly and is expected to last more than six weeks, with testimony from AT&T’s Randall Stephenson and Time Warner’s chief, Jeff Bewkes. Among the most important witnesses may be Carl Shapiro, an antitrust economist for the Justice Department who is not expected in coming days. Mr. Shapiro has projected that the merger would lead to a 45-cent monthly price increases for cable and satellite customers.

Mr. Petrocelli has previewed a plan to attack Mr. Shapiro’s analysis, which he has said is flawed and cherry-picks data.

OAKLAND, Calif. — The beautiful millionaires arrive in couture. Cameras are there to greet them as their fans stand by on social media, craving glimpses of their custom-fitted ensembles. Suddenly, however briefly, the bowels of basketball arenas are turned into the shabbiest fashion runways in the world.

For all their dazzling feats on the court, N.B.A. stars have somehow made an event out of simply showing up at games. The sports world and the fashion world cannot look away, even if the setting is an underground tunnel in, say, Oracle Arena — approximately nine million miles from Milan.

“Oh, it’s beautiful,” Sarah Oliphant, an artist who designs backdrops for fashion shows out of her studio in New York, said. She would not stage these N.B.A. arrivals any other way.

“These are high-powered people with megamoney behind them in every possible way,” Oliphant said. “But the runway is a linoleum floor and a concrete-walled tunnel,” and you can see Teamsters setting up in the background. She added: “I couldn’t have even thought that up. It’s brilliant. Whoever came up with this is brilliant.”

The N.B.A. finals between the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers are shaping up as one of the season’s biggest stages — for fashion, of course. The basketball has been decent, too, although not overly competitive. The Warriors will look to build on their two-games-to-none lead when the series resumes in Cleveland on Wednesday night.

“You stress over outfits for days,” the Warriors’ Stephen Curry said in an interview, “and you wind up wearing it for 30 seconds when you walk from the parking lot to the locker room.”

But those 30 seconds are important. Important to broadcast partners like ESPN and Turner Sports, who have filmed these entrances throughout the postseason to help fill pregame airtime. Important to viewers at home, who want to see their favorite players behind the scenes. Important to fashion designers, who benefit from mainstream exposure. And important to the players, who have come to delight in the strange pageantry of it all.

“I’ve got to make sure everything looks good coming out of the car,” Curry, the league’s most valuable player, said. “You don’t want to have a missed button or a wrinkled shirt.”

It is an oddly blue-collar environment for high fashion. Nobody made a bigger splash in recent weeks than Russell Westbrook of the Oklahoma City Thunder, whose team fell to the Warriors in the Western Conference finals. Westbrook’s bursts of sartorial pyrotechnics — denim overalls one game, zebra-print blazer the next — were offset by an obstacle course of trash cans, ladders and heating ducts.

“It’s become an event unto itself, which is kind of amazing,” Brett J. Banakis, a stage and film production designer, said. “So you’ll have Russell Westbrook wearing a lime green jumpsuit and walking past the most banal objects possible.”

Banakis has been a fan of Westbrook’s since they were students together at U.C.L.A., where Westbrook played basketball and Banakis played trombone in the marching band. (They were once on the same charter flight to the Final Four, Banakis said.) Banakis said it made sense for high-profile players to embrace their opportunities to flash some individual style, even if their milieu is a loading dock.

“Most of the time, you see them wearing uniforms,” he said. “So this is really their only moment to say, ‘This is me.’”

Oliphant, the backdrop designer, is not a huge basketball fan — “I usually choose the team that has the nicest colors and costumes,” she said — but she has been transfixed by the clips of players arriving for games. Oliphant cited the authenticity of the whole setup. Consider the Cavaliers’ LeBron James, who, seconds after arriving at Oracle for Game 1 on Thursday night, deposited some personal items in a small plastic tub before he went through a metal detector. He even had to wait in line behind a couple of team officials. (LeBron: Just like us!)

“It wouldn’t have the same effect if you took all these guys and you put them up at Lincoln Center in one of the big fashion-week venues,” Oliphant said. “I could even paint them a giant backdrop, but it wouldn’t be the same. It would no longer be accessible to my nephew who would never watch something on fashion.”

Curry said he did not realize that he needed to care about his 30-second pregame walk to the locker room until he made his first playoffs appearance with the Warriors in 2013. All of a sudden, camera crews were waiting for him. He knew then that he had to put more effort into his attire. It has become an important part of his game day ritual.

“I would wear most of this stuff anyway, especially for the playoffs,” he said. “You want to feel good for each game.”

While television has used player arrivals as pregame fodder for years, social media has given these small moments greater currency. They have also become much more involved productions. Nian Fish, a creative director and producer of fashion shows and events, said she was struck by the work of the film crews.

“You can see a guy holding up a big floodlight because they’re obviously going through this dark tunnel,” Fish said. “So I’m like, wow, that’s really amazing that they’re doing a lighting production to create a video of this, their own version of the red carpet. They’re really producing this shot.”

All for a few seconds of video. There are other logistical hurdles, said Tim Corrigan, a senior coordinating producer for ESPN. Because home and visiting teams often arrive at different entrances, Corrigan assigns crews to camp out at each location. Players also show up at various times. When the Warriors are on the road, for example, they have three buses that leave for the arena in 30-minute increments. By now, ESPN’s crew knows that Curry tends to take the last bus, which usually pulls in about two hours before the game.

Once he arrives, Curry takes measured steps past the assembled masses, his strides slow but purposeful.

“It’s a normal walk,” the assistant coach Bruce Fraser said, “for someone who knows someone else is staring at him.”

Other players are more elusive. Corrigan recalled how Ray Allen, the former N.B.A. player, liked to show up so early for games that he often took a taxi from the team hotel.

Marreese Speights, a reserve forward with the Warriors, tries to avoid the cameras altogether. His strategy? Take the last bus to road games and be the last player to disembark, his hope being that everyone will have vacated the premises then. Besides, Speights has no illusions that the cameras are there for him.

“People want to see their favorite players all dressed up,” he said.

The spotlight that follows Curry does not affect everyone. Steve Kerr, the Warriors’ coach, often shows up for home games in a T-shirt and sweatpants. (He carries his suit in a garment bag.)

Others take greater pains to be more fashion forward. James Michael McAdoo, a second-year forward, has friends who send him news clippings and video snippets of Curry that just happen to feature McAdoo standing in the background. McAdoo does not want to look like a slob.

“My wife makes sure I dress up for the finals,” he said. “I let her iron my shirts. I pick out my outfit a little bit earlier. It’s not like I just wake up from my nap and throw on whatever. Let’s make sure I have something that’s a little choreographed for each game.”

Curry has become an active participant in the whole process. He goes so far as to watch clips of other players making their arena entrances.

“All the time,” Curry, whose competitive drive extends beyond the court, said. “You want to see what the other guys are doing.”

With the climactic Game 7 of the N.B.A. finals on tap for Sunday — and with LeBron James’s Cleveland Cavaliers recently outplaying Stephen Curry’s Golden State Warriors to even the series — there is a business question looming along with the basketball ones.

Are we about to see a new version of the infamous sneaker wars that Nike and Adidas fought in the 1990s?

Back then, Nike beat back Adidas; indeed, it now has more than 90 percent of the basketball shoe market — a number that compares to Microsoft’s monopoly over operating systems in its heyday. Now, however, Nike has a new challenger: a cocky upstart named Under Armour.

In case you hadn’t noticed, Curry, one of the most popular players in the N.B.A., wears shoes made by Under Armour. But that wasn’t always the case: When he first entered the league, in 2009, he was under contract with Nike. Over the next four years, he showed he was a terrific player, but, in part because of ankle problems, hadn’t yet become what he is now: the N.B.A.’s marquee player — an amazing shooter with a transcendent game and an appealing, down-to-earth personality.

In 2013, with Curry’s contract up for renewal, Under Armour, which had been selling basketball shoes for only a few years, sensed an opportunity. Under Armour offered him $4 million a year to switch. Nike, which was paying him a reported $2.5 million, declined to match the offer. The rest, as they say, is history.

At a time when sales of basketball shoes have been sluggish, Under Armour’s have taken off. They were up 95 percent in the fourth quarter of last year (compared with 2014’s fourth quarter) and another 64 percent in the first quarter of this year. Its footwear revenue was $678 million in 2015, up from $127 million in 2010. Although Nike dominates the business of basketball shoes, Under Armour has made inroads.

Much of that growth is directly attributable to Curry’s enormous popularity. Since the beginning of the year, according to Jay Sole, who follows the company for Morgan Stanley, “Curry basketball footwear has accelerated meaningfully.” In a note he wrote to clients a few months ago, Sole said that shoes with Curry’s name on them are likely to see $160 million in sales this year. That would put his signature shoes ahead of every other current player’s, including Nike’s marquee endorser, LeBron James, who has a lifetime contract with the company worth a reported $500 million.

In the N.B.A. finals, Under Armour’s guy, Curry, plays for the defending champion Warriors, while Nike’s guy, James (not to mention another key Nike athlete, Kyrie Irving), plays for a team that lost to the Warriors in last year’s finals and is still looking for its first N.B.A. championship. But in the world of business, Nike is still the 800-pound gorilla of the sportswear industry, with $30 billion in revenue last year and tentacles in every sport imaginable. Under Armour, which is on track to generate $5 billion in revenue this year, is very much the striving newcomer.

But Under Armour is the first company since the 1990s to knock Nike off its stride. For instance, earlier this year, Nike hired away a key Under Armour shoe designer — only to have Under Armour rehire him two months later before he worked a single day for Nike. Last year, when Nike discovered that Under Armour was trying to get the University of Texas to switch allegiances, it swooped in and re-signed Texas with a 15-year, $250 million contract. Earlier this week, Nike announced the departure of Michael Jackson, who ran its $3.7 billion global basketball business.

Under Armour was founded 20 years ago by a former University of Maryland football player named Kevin Plank. His is a classic entrepreneur’s tale: He started the company, at age 23, in his grandmother’s basement in Washington. His original idea was to replace the heavy cotton T-shirt that football players wore under their pads and uniforms with one made of microfibers that would wick away sweat. In its first year, Under Armour took in $17,000.

There are two things that are striking about Plank’s initial business model. The first is that his shirts were aimed strictly at elite athletes rather than the general public; he was making “performance wear,” as they say in the trade. The second was the way he built the Under Armour brand in the early days: by handing his shirts to football players he knew from high school or college who had gone on to the N.F.L.

“My contacts among these N.F.L. players were a vital part of my strategy,” he later wrote in an article for the Harvard Business Review. (Although I was able to interview several top Under Armour executives for this column, Plank was unavailable, a company spokeswoman said.)

In other words, endorsements have been critical to Under Armour’s success from the very beginning. The N.F.L. players who wore his shirts talked them up, which led teams, beginning with the Atlanta Falcons and the Giants, to start buying them for all the players. When the Miami Dolphins asked him to supply the team with free shirts, Plank said no. He needed to be able to sell to teams because they were his target market. (The Dolphins ended up buying the shirts.)

Endorsements have been critical to Nike’s success, too, of course — indeed, they’ve been as much a part of the company’s marketing as the “Just Do It” commercials.

Nike started with running shoes. In the company’s early days, the great University of Oregon runner, Steve Prefontaine, who was close to the Nike founders Phil Knight and Bill Bowerman (Oregon’s track coach for many years), wore its track shoes. John McEnroe was an early endorser of its tennis shoes. When Nike started selling basketball shoes in the late 1970s, it came up with the idea of paying college coaches to have their teams wear Nikes. And, of course, in 1984, Nike landed the greatest sports endorser of them all: Michael Jordan. His first signature shoe, the Air Jordan 1, was an instant success, and his appeal has continued well into his retirement. Today, the Jordan Brand, which is a Nike subsidiary, is a $3 billion business.

Flush with cash, Nike now tries to corner the market on big-name basketball players — Kevin Durant and Russell Westbrook also have big Nike contracts — while also trying to tie up as many other players as possible. Almost three in four N.B.A. players suit up with Nike shoes. “Nike’s approach is to have all the right guys to defend its position,” said David Abrutyn, a partner at Bruin Sports Capital. To put it another way, it spreads its bets.

Under Armour doesn’t have the money to play that game. So it has to make choices. Sometimes they pay off — as when the company signed Cam Newton out of college — or when it added Jordan Spieth to its roster of endorsers not long before he won the 2015 Masters. And occasionally, they don’t; its first N.B.A. endorser was Brandon Jennings, who has been in the league since 2009 but never became the star Under Armour hoped he would be.

Now, of course, it has captured lightning in a bottle with Curry. During Under Armour’s first quarter earnings call in April, Plank couldn’t stop dropping Curry’s name.

“Our footwear M.V.P. is Stephen Curry,” he said at one point. The company’s revenue had risen 30 percent in the quarter; he claimed, somewhat absurdly, that “when Steph Curry decided to put up 30 points a game, and wear the number 30, we thought putting up 30 percent growth was our way of showing our support.” (Curry’s deal with Under Armour was extended last year to 2024 — and includes stock in the company.)

Here’s the thing, though. Nike didn’t become a $30 billion company solely by relying on Michael Jordan. At a certain point in the 1980s, it went well beyond performance wear and began making shoes and clothes for people who had no athletic aspirations at all. According to Matt Powell, the sports industry analyst for the NPD Group, “only 25 percent of athletic shoes are used for athletic activities.” Walk through an airport and just look at how many people are wearing Nike shoes — not fancy athletic shoes, but everyday walking shoes, comfortable shoes that have nothing to do with Michael Jordan.

There is not much doubt that Kevin Plank wants to build Under Armour into the next Nike. In my conversations with Under Armour executives, they never uttered the word “Nike” — they simply referred to the company as “our competitor.” Sole, the Morgan Stanley analyst, has said that if Curry does indeed turn out to be an endorser akin to Jordan, it could be worth $14 billion in Under Armour’s stock market valuation.

But that’s still a long way from Nike, which currently has a market value of $90 billion to Under Armour’s $23 billion. Plank has said that the company wants to reach $7 billion in revenue by 2018. Nike is on record as wanting to hit $50 billion in revenue by 2020.

Under Armour has spent 20 years selling itself as a “performance” company, marketing to athletes and wanna-be athletes. To become a company generating Nike-type revenue, it will have to become a brand that appeals to everybody. Which means that Steph Curry, hot as he is right now, can only get them part of the way to the place they want to go.