When the Yankees hired Aaron Boone out of the broadcast booth to be their manager, he had never held a job in baseball as a coach or manager, or even as a scout or executive.

But it is not quite true that Boone, 45, is completely bereft of coaching experience. For the last five years, he was the defensive coordinator of the mighty Steelers, a youth flag football juggernaut in Scottsdale, Ariz., where he makes his home.

“We used to joke with him when he was interviewing for the Yankees’ job,” said DeAndre Wadlington, a parent of one of the team’s players. “We’d read all this about him not having coaching experience and we’d be: ‘C’mon, man. He coached the Steelers.’ All he had to do was show his résumé.”

Wadlington paused to laugh.

“I told him when he got the job: ‘The Steelers prepared you for this.’”

Wadlington laughed some more, but he might have been on to something. Many of the qualities that parents say they saw Boone exhibit with their boys — upbeat, confident, calm and able to connect with players — are among the reasons the Yankees chose him.

And if you think Yankee Stadium is hyperkinetic in October, try stepping into the caldron of youth sports, with its overbearing parents, grating coaches and emotionally burdened children under the lights on Saturday nights.

“It can get a little testy out there sometimes,” Boone said with a grin.

Might there be an old grainy video of the new Yankee manager misbehaving on the sidelines available somewhere on the internet?

“No,” Boone said, smile still intact. “I think we’re good.”

Shortly after his playing career ended in 2009, Boone got involved in coaching for the same reason many parents do: to bond with his children — Brandon, now 12, and Bella, 8. (He and his wife, Laura, adopted two boys, Jeanel, 15, and Sergot, 13, four years ago.)

While baseball is deeply ingrained in the Boone family — his grandfather Ray; his father, Bob; and his brother Bret also played in the major leagues — Aaron did not see the point of teaching the intricacies of a swing to 6-year-olds. Football, though, carried plenty of appeal. He played the sport from Pop Warner through high school, where he was a speedy receiver, he recalled, but didn’t like to get hit. He remains a passionate fan of the football team at his alma mater, Southern California.

“I always had these romanticized thoughts that I was going to coach high school football one day,” said Boone, who spent the last eight baseball seasons working for ESPN. “So I thought it would be fun. We had the same nucleus of kids every year and their parents, and it kind of snowballed. We’d get to the fall, late in the baseball season and you start looking forward to our team and asking, ‘Are we going to play in the winter season and the spring season?’”

Boone and his coaching partner, Mark Tapley, would meet before the start of each season and devise a play list, schemes and blitz packages for the 5-on-5 league. Tapley, with a laminated play sheet in his hands on the sidelines, called the offensive plays, and Boone, known as Coach Aaron, handled the defense.

The eight or nine boys on the team practiced once or twice a week. There was no team mom and no orange slices at halftime.

“We were all business,” Tapley said.

Boone and Tapley, a former college quarterback, made for a complementary pair. “He was the brains behind it,” said Boone, who lent a cool head.

Though Boone could be fiery on the baseball field — he was kicked out of his first game in the major leagues — he was a pillar of patience and restraint as a football coach.

“We had a good yin and yang,” said Tapley, whose two sons played on the team. “I’m a little loud. I have more of that Type A, overzealous personality as it pertains to coaching. Aaron was calm. He observed. He’s not a yeller and a screamer by any means. If the ref makes a bad call, I’m going to get loud and let him know about it. If a kid runs the wrong route, I might bark at him a little.”

He added: “Aaron made me a better person. You know, ‘Let’s not take this down to an unhealthy level.’”

Boone had an ability to connect with the boys as well as the grown-ups. While the gravitas of being a former professional athlete may have helped, so did Boone’s investing in the boys, periodically texting parents on how their child was developing, and using setbacks on the field as teachable moments.

Sammy Tadio’s parents nicknamed Boone “The Sammy Whisperer” for the knack he had of centering their son when he would get riled up or down on himself.

“He’d pull Sammy aside and say, ‘You know how to do this,’ and slap him on the back and send him out there,” Bill Tadio said. “Coming from a guy like Aaron, I think it resonated a little more than some dad telling him something. To be able to bounce back the next play — he was all about that. Win or lose, you never put your head down and you shake hands at the end of the game.”

What also caught Tadio’s eye was how Boone coached his own son Brandon the same way. (Bella played briefly, when she was 6.)

From the perspective of the players, the name of the league — Prime Time Athletics — was no misnomer. The games, which lasted an hour, resembled a football carnival. Music blared over loudspeakers as four or five games were played concurrently. Snacks and soda were for sale.

Afterward, the families often met at a sports bar where they’d eat, watch college football during the fall, and send the kids off with quarters to play arcade games.

When Boone’s family hosted a team party after the Steelers won the championship one season, he invited all the children into his garage, where he had more than 100 bats from his playing days. He told each child to pick out a bat and he signed it with a personal message.

To Sammy Tadio, he wrote, “To a great kid w/ a huge heart.”

Boone played baseball for his father, Bob, twice — on a Connie Mack League team after he graduated from high school and later when Bob managed the Cincinnati Reds. Asked what he has gotten out of the experience of coaching his own son’s team, Boone said, “Joy.”

“That’s what I took — the enjoyment, a little bit of competition,” he added. “We played to win and wanted to win, but I think it was just seeing kids get better and trying to mold them. I really enjoyed trying to help them not only deal with success because we were usually a good team, but also how do we react when we lose? How do we play when it’s hard, when you throw an interception or when a team is having its way with you? What’s our reaction then?”

Boone said that “in a small, probably weird, far-fetched way,” there were experiences he could take from coaching the boys and apply it to managing men. Helping mold his players is inherent in coaching any sport at any level.

In Scottsdale, a group of boys — and a few interested parents — will turn their eyes to the Yankees this season, which begins Thursday in Toronto. Some of the Steelers have stopped playing flag football, others have joined different teams, and the parents are somewhat wistful.

“The Yankees’ gain is our loss,” Tadio said.

MINNEAPOLIS — Justin Timberlake is performing at the Super Bowl halftime show on Sunday, but he doesn’t appear to be ready to let his son take the field anytime soon.

During a news conference here Thursday afternoon, Timberlake, who is singing at the Super Bowl halftime show for the third time, was generally lighthearted, fielding questions about his love for Tom Brady and being serenaded by a reporter with “Happy Birthday” (he turned 37 on Wednesday).

After he jokingly offered to step in to play for the Patriots if they needed him, Timberlake was asked if he would support his 2-year-old son, Silas, in “running some routes in the N.F.L.”

“Uh, he will never play football,” said Timberlake, who is married to the actress Jessica Biel.

He smiled and added, “No, I mean, my main objective is that he become a great person. And if he wants to get into the arts or sports, yeah, I would fully support that.”

Timberlake, joking or not, isn’t the only celebrity to proclaim that his children won’t play football. While the rapper Snoop Dogg and the singer Jon Bon Jovi are among the famous parents whose children played college football, Mark Cuban, the Dallas Mavericks owner, has said that he would not want his son to play. And in 2013, President Barack Obama told The New Yorker that if he had a son, he wouldn’t want his son to play either.

Participation numbers in youth tackle football has been on the decline for years, and some state officials have introduced bills that would prohibit tackle football. A study done last year by Boston University showed that children who began playing tackle football before age 12 had more cognitive problems later in life than those who started after turning 12.

Timberlake is returning to the Super Bowl stage 14 years after he infamously ripped off a piece of Janet Jackson’s clothing, exposing her nipple onstage. He also appeared with ‘N Sync at the halftime show in 2001, but he and other members of the group have denied that Sunday’s performance will feature a reunion.

As for his son, there are more pressing matters at the moment than determining his career path. “Right now we are just working on our manners,” Timberlake said. “That’s a big deal in our house. It’s like, one thing at a time.”

Carmen Cozza, who won 10 Ivy League championships in his 32 years as Yale’s head football coach, died on Thursday in New Haven. He was 87.

His daughter Karen Pollard said the cause was complications of acute leukemia. He died at Smilow Cancer Hospital at Yale.

Cozza, who was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2002, was named coach of the year seven times by the American Football Coaches Association. From 1965 through 1996, his teams compiled a 179-119-5 record.

In one dominant stretch, from 1974 to 1981, the Bulldogs won seven of eight Ivy League titles, and in almost half his seasons as head coach his teams lost no more than two games.

His most celebrated year was 1968, when his team, led by the future N.F.L. star running back Calvin Hill and the quarterback Brian Dowling, who also went on to play in the National Football League, went undefeated.

But it was the one game Yale did not win that season, against its archrival, Harvard, that proved most memorable.

It was the season finale. Both teams were unbeaten. Yale led, 29-13, with 42 seconds left when Harvard scored on a 15-yard pass. A pass for a 2-point conversion failed, but Yale was called for pass interference. Harvard then ran successfully for the 2 points and trailed, 29-21.

Harvard then recovered an onside kickoff and, on a play that started with three seconds left and ended with no time left, scored on an 8-yard pass. The rules allowed a conversion attempt even though the clock had run out, and Harvard completed a pass for the 2 yards and a 29-29 tie.

The Harvard Crimson banner headline after the game famously declared, “Harvard Beats Yale 29-29.”

Like that of other Ivy coaches, Cozza’s success was made difficult by the league’s ban on athletic scholarships, enacted in 1945 (though the universities could continue to offer players financial aid).

Still, he turned out 15 players who went on to the N.F.L. Besides Calvin Hill and Brian Dowling, they included Rich Diana, John Spagnola, Dick Jauron, Kenny Hill and Gary Fencik.

Cozza recruited many of his players personally. Dowling had been heavily courted by Ohio State and Michigan but was won over by Cozza’s overtures.

Five of Cozza’s players became Rhodes scholars. Of his 1,500 or so players, only seven who completed their eligibility failed to graduate.

Dowling said Cozza had understood his players’ priorities.

“My freshman year, we had four tackles,” he told The Los Angeles Times in 1996. “On Thursdays, they all had labs, so we just lined up without tackles on offense and defense. That wouldn’t happen at Ohio State or Michigan.”

In Cozza’s heyday, his teams were stocked with exceptional players. But after the 1981 season, the talent thinned out, in part because Ivy League universities began using a statistical admissions system that combined high school class rankings and S.A.T. scores, hampering Cozza’s success in recruiting top prospects with marginal academic achievements.

Another blow was the Ivy League’s demotion by the N.C.A.A. in 1982 to Division I-AA, made up of lesser football powers. That hurt Yale’s ability to schedule major teams and was viewed as discouraging the best players from going there.

Robert Barton, a Yale football historian, said in an interview that Cozza’s strength “was in building an organization.”

“Carm tried to hire lieutenants whose judgment he could trust,” he said, “let them do their job, refereed when they had to choose whether a kid played offense or defense, and saw to it that no disagreements went beyond the coaches’ conference room.”

Carmen Louis Cozza, who was universally known as Carm, was born to Italian immigrants on June 10, 1930, in Parma, Ohio. At Miami University of Ohio he played both football and baseball, winning letters as a quarterback, halfback and safety and as a pitcher and an outfielder. His football coaches were Ara Parseghian, who went on to renown at Notre Dame, and Woody Hayes, who did the same at Ohio State.

After graduation, in 1952, Cozza played minor league baseball for two and a half years, in the Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox farm systems, before coaching high school football at Gilmour Academy, a Roman Catholic school in Gates Mills, Ohio.

From 1956 to 1962 he was a Miami of Ohio football assistant under John Pont. He also earned a master’s degree in education from Miami in 1959.

When Pont became the Yale coach in 1963, Cozza went along as an assistant. He became head coach in 1965 after Pont was named head coach at Indiana.

Cozza’s head-coaching debut at the Yale Bowl was inauspicious, however: a loss to Connecticut. Afterward, Charley Loftus, Yale’s sports information director, remarked that Cozza had received a telegram from the alumni association saying: “There’s a train leaving for New York at 4 o’clock. Be under it.”

In retirement Cozza was a fund-raiser for Yale sports, helping with the renovation of the Yale Bowl in particular, and a radio game analyst for Yale football games.

Besides his daughter Karen, Cozza, who lived in Orange, Conn., is survived by his wife, Jean Cozza; two other daughters, Kathryn Tutino and Kristen Powell; and five grandchildren.

For all his victories on the playing field, Cozza was equally proud of his players’ classroom success. “I always loved to joke with the alumni that I had to be the best pre-med and pre-law coach in the nation,” he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. “No one had as many doctors and lawyers as I did.”

LOS ANGELES — The reboot of the once-and-again Los Angeles Rams will get a huge lift on Saturday, when they host the Atlanta Falcons in the first round of the N.F.L. playoffs.

Dave Stanley will be there, just as he was in 1986, the last time the Southern California version of this team hosted a home playoff game. “I’m so ready for this,” said Stanley, 57, a lifelong Angeleno who is part of a group of die-hard Rams fans who wear hollowed-out watermelons on their heads when they sit in a section at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum known as the Melon Patch.

Melon-heads like Stanley experienced two decades of N.F.L. diaspora while their beloved Rams played in St. Louis from 1995-2015. The Rams returned to the Los Angeles region in 2016, then pulled off a stunning turnaround this season, winning 11 games, compared with four in 2016, a feat nearly matched by the newly rechristened Los Angeles Chargers, who relocated up the 405 from San Diego this season and almost made the playoffs.

The teams’ resurgences came at a critical time. Less than 10 miles from the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum, the Rams are building a $2.6 billion stadium and entertainment district in Inglewood that the Chargers will also call home. The stadium is now a vast construction site a few miles south of Los Angeles International Airport. The teams will soon begin asking their fans to spend thousands of dollars on personal seat licenses, the unpopular permits that are required before they can spend thousands of dollars more on season tickets.

Convincing fans to spend hefty sums for seat licenses, season tickets, club seats, and nearly 300 luxury suites with price tags in the low-to-mid six figures, will be a far harder task than getting them to buy modestly priced tickets at the Coliseum or StubHub Center in Carson, where the Chargers play for now.

With licenses for the best seats potentially costing more than $100,000, Stanley and thousands of other loyalists are nervous they won’t be able to afford a seat in the new stadium. There are financial limits to his love for the Rams, fanatical as it may be.

“If they say, 10, 15 grand for a seat license, it’ll be DirecTV, here I come,” said Stanley, who works at hardwood specialty products company.

The success of those sales campaigns will amount to a referendum not just on the Rams’ and Chargers’ popularity, but on the wisdom of the N.F.L.’s decision to let two teams move to Los Angeles. If the stadium is perceived as a pricey and exclusive luxury, the league’s goal of reintegrating itself into the country’s second largest market could sputter further.

Attendance at Rams games fell 24 percent this year, as the novelty factor of their maiden 2016 season wore off. The number of households watching Rams games dipped six percent this season. The Chargers struggled to fill the 30,000-seat StubHub Center, a soccer stadium where Chargers fans were often outnumbered by fans of the visiting team.

“Everyone knows we’re the new kids of the block,” said Dean Spanos, the Chargers owner. “We knew coming up here there wasn’t going to be a red carpet rolled out for us. We have to earn our way in.”

Still, on the field, things couldn’t have gone much better the past few months. After the Rams’ dismal first season back in Los Angeles, the precocious rookie head coach Sean McVay secured the Rams’ first division title since 2003. Powered by quarterback Jared Goff and Todd Gurley II, an M.V.P.-caliber running back, the Rams became the first team in the Super Bowl era to have the highest scoring offense a year after having the lowest.

The Chargers lost their first four games, then won nine of their last 12, fueled by the league’s best passing game. If the team hadn’t lost three games by a field goal or less, it might have squeezed into the playoffs.

However the teams perform, N.F.L. officials say they are confident the city will embrace the league, even though the Rams and Raiders abandoned the region after the 1994 season. Many owners believe the market, with about 15 million residents, can support two teams. They say the N.F.L.’s flash and speed is a natural fit in the entertainment capital of the world.

Kevin Demoff, the chief operating officer of the Rams, echoed this view and shrugged off the early hiccups. He blamed the decline of the team’s television audience on competition. Certain games took place at the same time as Chargers games, or had to fight for eyeballs with the national game of the week. And while attendance fell, he said, the team is attracting a more devoted following, not just casual fans eager to say they attended a game.

“As you drive around the city, you see Rams car flags, and you know you’ve made it when you see car flags,” Demoff said. He described reviving and building a new fan base as a long-term process. “Like building the stadium, this is going to take years.”

Winning helps. According to Fanatics, the largest online seller of N.F.L. gear, sales of Rams merchandise jumped 50 percent this season, the largest increase after the Eagles and Jaguars.

Demoff insisted the new stadium, which won’t open until 2020, will help define the team in Los Angeles, and befit a league that has grown into a $14 billion-a-year juggernaut. Its scale and scope suggest as much. The 300-acre city-within-a-city will be 3.5 times larger than Disneyland Park in Anaheim.

During the 14 months since ground was broken on the site of the old Hollywood Park Racetrack, crews have moved more than six million cubic yards of dirt, enough to fill 600,000 dump trucks. More than 12,000 tons of steel have been erected, helping give shape to much of the lower bowl of the venue. Many of the columns that will support the roof that will cover the 70,000-seat stadium are now in place.

The building is designed to create the buzz needed to attract attention in a city that craves it. The stadium will include 275 luxury suites and 16,000 club seats, and an oval two-sided video screen that will hang from the roof. The teams are banking on these and other attractions to create a must-see venue.

“People in this market want to go to see people and to be seen,” said Amy Trask, who grew up in Los Angeles and worked for the Raiders for 29 years, including several years when they played here. “If the Rams and Chargers can make their ticket a sexy ticket, it will insulate them in the down years.”

Though the Rams and Chargers will share the stadium, and have their own locker rooms, the teams are, in many ways, not equals, Trask and others said. When they moved back from St. Louis, the Rams were greeted by fans like Stanley, who followed them during some of the 46 years they played in Southern California.

The team also had the advantage of announcing their move first. Rams’ owner, E. Stanley Kroenke, is financing the stadium. The Chargers, who will be Kroenke’s tenant, arrived a year later, after they failed to persuade lawmakers in San Diego to help them build a new stadium there. The team has shallow roots in Los Angeles, having played here just one year as part of the old A.F.L.

Spanos was encouraged by the team’s strong finish, which helped lift merchandise sales and the team’s following on social media.

But many loyalists from San Diego have not followed the team north. One San Diego resident was so angry at the Chargers that he raised $22,000 online to help pay for a billboard near the StubHub Center to criticize the N.F.L. and team for abandoning San Diego. The fan, Joseph MacRae, has also rented planes that flew banners over the stadium on game day, something he plans to do again on Saturday before the Rams-Falcons game.

“The message I’m trying to get across is that the N.F.L. really messed this up,” MacRae said. “People in San Diego are never going to root for a team in Los Angeles. No fan deserves to lose their team.”

For now, though, the focus is on the Rams. Though the team’s offense was understandably lauded, the team’s defense improved measurably under the new defensive coordinator, Wade Phillips, one of the great defensive minds of his generation. Phillips, who most recently created the Denver Broncos’ buzz-saw defense that won the 2016 Super Bowl, is 70 years old, nearly four decades older than his 31-year-old boss McVay, who is known as an offensive whiz.

Under Phillips, defensive tackle Aaron Donald has become a force of nature. Donald led the N.F.L. in forced fumbles, was tied for fourth in quarterback hits, and led all defensive tackles with 11 sacks.

On offense, Gurley led the league with 2,093 yards from scrimmage and scored 19 total touchdowns. Goff also had a talented group of receivers to throw to, including rookie Cooper Kupp, but also Robert Woods and Sammy Watkins. The Rams had the best kick returner in Pharoh Cooper, the best punter in Johnny Hekker, and the best kicker, Greg Zuerlein, until he injured his back.

And with one of the youngest rosters in the league, the Rams have the potential to succeed for years to come, something they will desperately need to win over a city with little appetite for the mediocre that is still getting to know the team.

“The opening of the new stadium will be a panacea for a while, and people will be focused on ribbon cutting and flyovers,” said David Carter, the executive director of the Sports Business Institute at USC. “But you better have the right high-octane product that captivates market. Around here, if you’re not in, you’re out.”

With each new N.F.L. rule forbidding late hits, low hits, high hits, hits against defenseless players and hits that pile drive an opponent into the ground, the league has tried every magnified, overarching way it can think of to protect its biggest stars.

But the N.F.L. has a problem. You can’t legislate the violence out of the game.

It is also a football rule that the hits will keep coming, usually until someone with the ball is on the ground. And sometimes not everyone gets up right away.

And then the league takes a hit of a different kind.

Sunday was just such a day.

Aaron Rodgers, the Green Bay Packers quarterback and one of the most prominent figures in American sports, went down with a thud early in a game in Minnesota. He rose but with a broken right collarbone. On Monday, Packers Coach Mike McCarthy said that the injury would require surgery and that Rodgers’s season could be over.

His injury is the latest, most dramatic setback for the league, which in a span of eight days, has endured the departure of some its biggest stars.

Last week, it was Odell Beckham Jr., the Giants’ popular lightning rod of a wide receiver who exited the arena in pain. His ankle was bent at a gruesome angle on a routine tackle. Beckham has already had the surgery to repair a splintered ankle, but his season has concluded.

The same day, J.J. Watt, the Houston Texans’ defensive end and another crossover star for his charitable works and marketability, was sidelined for the year with a fracture of the tibial plateau in his leg. Watt is a three-time winner of the league’s defensive player of the year award.

Hours after Rodgers’s injury in a loss on Sunday, Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Jameis Winston, the first overall pick of the 2015 N.F.L. draft, left his team’s game after he was tackled by two defenders and fell on his throwing shoulder. The team announced on Monday that Winston had a sprained AC joint in his shoulder and that he had not been ruled out of Tampa Bay’s game against Buffalo on Sunday.

Serious, debilitating injuries happen in every sport every year, not just football. But with the possibility that Rodgers is lost for the season, and with Watt and Beckham already shelved, the shape and competitive balance of the 2017 N.F.L. season is beginning to take a different turn.

The tested, experienced Packers, once thought to be in a commanding playoff position, may cede their status as the N.F.C. team most likely on the path to the Super Bowl. Several unexpected, up-and-coming contenders, from the Los Angeles Rams to the Philadelphia Eagles, have emerged instead.

At the same time, six weeks in, there will probably be new calls for more rules to keep football’s stars secure and upright.

If only it were just a matter of one more rule.

There doesn’t appear to be much that could have been done to prevent any of these recent injuries. Rodgers was upset that he was banged to the ground by Minnesota’s Anthony Barr after he had thrown the football. But the ball had just left his hand, and despite the N.F.L.’s already zealous, punitive penalties against contact with the quarterback, no penalty was called on the play.

Watt was engaged with a blocker in a fairly typical fashion. Beckham’s twisted leg was horrific to watch, but the contact was legal.

Winston, in the most elemental play of all, was chased from behind and tackled to the ground in a way that happens dozens of times in most N.F.L. games and hundreds of times in a season.

That may be the overriding point.

In the modern N.F.L., the helmets are more technologically advanced. The footwear is improved. Equipment safety guidelines are intricate and enforced. There are far more doctors, including neurologists, on the sideline than ever. The athletic training staff resembles a small army. Video replay ensures that excessive or unnecessarily vicious hits that may not have been noticed initially can be penalized after the fact, even if it is days after a game.

The N.F.L. is a business with profits built on the backs of its talent. Especially when it comes to its highest paid employees, it needs a healthy work force, at least in the short term. Cognizant of that reality, the league has taken dozens of steps to try to keep the stars it has developed on the field exhibiting their extraordinary athletic gifts.

But anyone watching football understands some essential truths. Although the modern player is bigger, faster and stronger, the rudiments of the game – blocking and tackling – have not changed and most likely never will.

It is a combination, regardless of how thick the rule book gets, that will forever make it impossible to prevent the game’s top stars from being injured.

Some days will just be worse than others. Sunday happened to be one of them.

CARSON, Calif. — At the moment the public-address announcer asked fans to rise and kindly remove their caps for the national anthem, the men’s room behind Section 108 was in full use, with dozens more waiting in a line that streamed out the door.

At the concession stand, beers kept pouring. Cash kept changing hands. The 11 metal detectors here at the StubHub Center’s entry gates each had more than 50 people lined up to come through. The machines kept beeping.

Most removed their caps, but not all did. A young man with a rubber Eagle mask (the Los Angeles Chargers were playing the Philadelphia Eagles) kept it propped on his head. A girl spooned a slushy concoction into her mouth, turning her lips blue. A man and woman nudged their way through those standing still and talked through the song about the best way to find their seats the moment it ended. They did not want to miss the kickoff.

As players continue being judged by their postures during “The Star-Spangled Banner,” perhaps it is fair to turn the lens around. Those who have spent a lot of time in stadiums and arenas know that they are rarely sanctuaries of patriotic conformity and decorum.

Across the N.F.L. on Sunday, the scenes were familiar, starting long before the games began. Anthem singers rehearsed their renditions in empty places like M & T Bank Stadium in Baltimore, and the words and melody carried deep into the surrounding parking lots, which were thick with revelers and barbecue smoke. When the song swept through, tailgaters continued eating, drinking and playing games, unmoved. It was not the time or place to pause for the national anthem, apparently.

Fans were much more attentive in the minutes before the game, at least in the seating areas. On a large, wide walkway at the open end of the New England Patriots’ Gillette Stadium directly overlooking the field, several dozen fans ambled around during the anthem, indifferent to the song or the presentation of the flag by a color guard on the field.

At MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J., a steady flow of men entered and exited the restroom during the anthem, though it was audible through the concourse. Of the hundreds who passed near the aisle leading to Sections 103 and 104, a tiny percentage stopped, removed their hats and held their hands on their hearts. People in concession lines continued their transactions.

At AT&T Stadium in Arlington, Tex., where the Dallas Cowboys were playing the Los Angeles Rams, many fans raised their arms during the anthem — some in a fist as a sign of protest, perhaps, but far more holding a cellphone high to better record what the players were doing.

Green Bay quarterback Aaron Rodgers wryly noted the contradictions inherent in the anthem-respect debate when he posted a photograph on Instagram last week, showing photographers crouched at the feet of Rodgers and his teammates, aiming cameras at them.

“I can’t imagine what kind of social media attacks these cameramen must be enduring after taking a knee during the anthem and wearing a hat,” Rodgers wrote.

If nothing else, an air of anticipation surrounds the anthem now, whether borne of patriotism or of curiosity.

But as part of the game-day experience, the anthem has always meant different things to different people. For some, it is something to cherish; for others, something to endure. For most, it is the biggest signal that the game is about to start.

Until the past couple of weeks, the anthem was rarely seen by television viewers; it was a time for broadcasters to show commercials. At stadiums, seats are usually not yet full.

The anthem itself is a two-minute pause amid the anticipation of a violent game, and guidelines for decorum are mostly unwritten and local. Many fans use the lyrics to express home-team allegiances. Kansas City fans shout that theirs is the home of the “Chiefs!” rather than “the brave” at the end of the song. It is not uncommon for individuals to pierce the pauses between lines to express love for the home team or disdain for the visitors. Imagine a player doing that.

The United States Code, in Title 4, Chapter 1, provides standards for presenting and respecting the American flag. They are not enforceable. After all, in Texas v. Johnson in 1989, the Supreme Court upheld the First-Amendment right to burn the flag.

The code states that military personnel should stand at attention and salute when the flag is raised, lowered, or when it passes, and others “should face the flag and stand at attention with their right hand over the heart, or if applicable, remove their headdress with their right hand and hold it at the left shoulder, the hand being over the heart.”

If you have been to an N.F.L. stadium, you have probably noticed many in the crowd doing that. You have probably noticed plenty of others not.

The current controversy began last year when one of the N.F.L’s roughly 1,700 players sat for the national anthem. The player, quarterback Colin Kaepernick, soon shifted to kneeling instead of sitting, and he was clear about his motivation: To call attention to racial injustice, including a string of killings of unarmed African-Americans by the police.

His position — the physical one, at least — angered many Americans. Critics said his mere posture was the ultimate sign of disrespect.

Yet as he knelt, Kaepernick faced the flag and solemnly kept his gaze ahead. He appeared to pay attention to the proceedings. He was not on his phone, he was not in a beer line, he was not chewing on nachos — all things that occur countless times during an anthem at just about any sporting event in this country.

Still, the cause has remained at the forefront of the national discourse, as President Trump again trumpeted the issue through the weekend, beginning with a tweet on Saturday evening.

“Very important that NFL players STAND tomorrow, and always, for the playing of our National Anthem,” he wrote. “Respect our Flag and our Country!”

So what counts as appropriate, and who decides? What if your hands are full because you do not have a place to set your hot dogs? What if your hat is part of the costume and cannot be removed easily? One man in at the Atlanta Falcons’ game on Sunday wore a red, white and blue mask over his face during the anthem, raising the question of whether a wrong can ever be a right.

Can you scratch an itch? Take a sip? Look at a text? Can you nod at the beer vendor so that he’ll sell you a drink when the song is over?

What if you are on the concourse, out of view of the field? Can you keep walking? Can you continue to use the urinal if you hear the anthem through the bathroom doors?

Is the most important part to “stand,” or to be “at attention?” Because Kaepernick, and most who have knelt since, broke only one of these quasi-rules.

Many — including the president, most pointedly — have criticized the N.F.L. for creating the debate by not requiring players to stand at attention. Others suggest that the flap would not have arisen had the N.F.L. not required teams to be on the field for the anthem, a mandate that began in 2009.

The sports world’s trend toward big productions often overwhelms out the nobility and solemnity of the anthem. For example, the code also says that the flag “should never be carried flat or horizontally.” The code does not specify if it is appropriate for a flag 100 yards long to be held parallel to the ground, or shaken by the people holding it when the anthem gets to lyric “that star-spangled banner yet wave,” and then wadded up hastily to make way for a game about to start.

The code states that the flag should not be worn as a costume, but “a flag patch may be affixed to the uniform of military personnel, fire fighters, police officers, and members of patriotic organizations.” The N.F.L., apparently, has deemed itself one of those, as U.S. flag decals adorning the back of player helmets.

It can be hard to know what counts as right anymore, and opinions are about as numerous as fans themselves. Some Jets fans at MetLife Stadium Stadium wore green T-shirts reading “I stand for the national anthem.” Plenty of others around the nation wore replicas of Kaepernick’s No. 7 with the 49ers.

In Baltimore, fans and players mostly stood in solemn respect during the anthem. Before it started, however, the Ravens knelt together to pray for “kindness, unity, equality and justice for all Americans.”

The players were booed by fans — those who were not making a last-minute stop for the bathroom or a beer, at least, before kickoff.